
--- PAGE 1 ---

Astarion's Book of Hungers for
Dungeons and Dragons Fifth
Edition
,
Printed by Eyenarr
Printed with the BeyondPrinting-Chrome-Extension

--- PAGE 3 ---

Introduction
Introduction
Using This Supplement
Chapter 1: Vampiric Character Options
Character Backgrounds
Carouser
Vampire Devotee
Vampire Survivor
Character Species
Dhampir
Feats
Feat List
Origin Feats
Tireless Reveler
Vampire Hunter
Vampire's Plaything
General Feats
Bloodlust
Bomber
Cloying Mists
Delicious Pain
Light Bringer
Love Bites
Putrefy
Rebuke
Treacherous Allure
Vampire Touched
Epic Boon Feats
Boon of Blazing Dawn
Boon of Looming Shadows
Boon of Misty Escape
Chapter 2: Crea tures of the Night
Cazador Szarr's Family
Fiendish Icon
Harvester Devil
Speaker Devil
Vampire Infernalist
Vampire Warden
Chapter 3: Adventures With Astarion
Rat's Run Adventures
Rat's Run Plots
Family Outreach
The Wayward Son
Rat's Run Tavern and Inn
Mysterious Leadership
Den of Villainy
Tavern and Inn
General Features

--- PAGE 4 ---

Rat's Run Locations
Credits

--- PAGE 5 ---

INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 6 ---

↑ Vampires Own the Night
But before the events of the video game, Astarion was the victim and unwilling servant of the vampire
Cazador Szarr, a worshiper of the archdevil Mephistopheles. Each night, Astarion and Cazador’s other
vampire spawn delivered victims their master would feed upon and kill. To cope with Szarr’s torments
and the horrors of his undead life, Astarion armed himself with sardonic wit, flirtation, and a dark sense
of humor. Decades of nocturnal hunts taught Astarion about all facets of vampiric life: secrets he’s
divulged herein.
For players and Dungeon Masters alike, Astarion’s Book of Hungers offers new character options and
tools for those drawn to vampires, whether in Baldur’s Gate or wherever you set your Dungeons &
Dragons adventures. Employing these details, Astarion fans can adventure alongside their favorite
vampire spawn, while all players can discover what lurks in the seediest corners of the vampire
underworld.
THE ELF VAMPIRE SPAWN ASTARION ANCUNÍN CHARMED HIS WAY INTO THE HEARTS OF
Forgotten Realms fans in the video game Baldur’s Gate 3. In that game, Astarion is an adventuring
companion and potential paramour, and players can urge him toward redemption or tyranny.
ARTIST: CLINT CEARLEY


--- PAGE 8 ---

Using This Supplement
Chapter 1 is suitable for all players’ eyes, while chapters 2 and 3 are intended for Dungeon Masters only. The following is included
in this supplement:
Chapter 1 details the Dhampir species, plus backgrounds and feats suitable for D&D characters with an interest in or history
related to vampires.
Chapter 2 offers information about Cazador Szarr’s vampire family, as well as stat blocks for creatures tied to vampires or
Mephistopheles.
Chapter 3 presents examples of adventures that involve Astarion, as well as details and a map for Rat’s Run, an establishment
Astarion frequented before the events of Baldur’s Gate 3.
Astarion’s Timeline
Below are important dates in Astarion’s life and unlife, presented in Dalereckoning (DR), the Forgotten Realms’ most common year
measurement:
1261 DR. Astarion Ancunín is born in Baldur’s Gate.
1300 DR. The vampire Cazador Szarr turns Astarion into a vampire spawn.
1492 DR. The events of Baldur’s Gate 3 occur.
1501 DR. This is the date of events presented in Forgotten Realms: Heroes of Faerûn and Forgotten Realms: Adventures in Faerûn.ASTARION PERUSES HIS WRITTEN INSIGHTS ABOUT SUNDRY CREATURES OF THE NIGHT.


--- PAGE 9 ---

Hello, darlings!
Let’s cut straight to the heart of the matter, shall we? Yes, this tome reveals
vampiric secrets. Yes, one might use these details to kill vampires, as well as sundry
creatures of the night. And yes, I, Astarion Ancunín, one afflicted with a thirst for
blood, provided every detail you’re about to read.
Isn’t the irony delicious?
As always, I have my reasons. You see, many vampires are particularly loathsome,
and any of them might pose a threat to yours truly. So when I saw a vampire hunter
stride into Rat’s Run, my favorite little hovel of a tavern in Baldur’s Gate, I concocted
a brilliant plan. I charmed her, using all the old-fashioned techniques: the honeyed
voice, the cocked brow, the hip swivel. And then I smiled, and the hunter glimpsed
my fangs. Oh, you should have seen her face!
Once we established that, yes, she could try to kill me with her nasty, little stake, we
agreed on one thing: I’m a delight, but I’m not a real threat. And I have information
that could help her bag some impressive bloodsuckers.
So I told her every word you’ll read in this tome. And then another brilliant idea
dawned on me. I put quill to scroll.
After all, don’t my words deserve to echo in the hearts and minds of vampire
hunters for generations? Gods be praised, we might finally be rid of the worst of our
kind: the indiscreet, the devil worshipers, the demon harbingers, and the boring!
I’ve consulted with scholarly types in Baldur’s Gate, and they’ve suggested the
formatting, editorial conventions, and other such mundanities you’ll read in this
tome. The result is a bit dry, so I’ve taken the liberty of punctuating the academia
with some of my more arresting insights.
Only time will tell if the existence of this tome dooms a significant number of my
brethren to oblivion. Even if not, at least I’m entertained and at least you’ve

--- PAGE 10 ---

received the gift of my wit.
You’re quite welcome, darlings!
All my love,
Astarion

--- PAGE 11 ---

CHAPTER 1CHAPTER 1

--- PAGE 12 ---

↑ Vampiric Character Options
ARTIST: CYNTHIA SHEPPARD


--- PAGE 14 ---

REVELERS AT THIS DECADENT BALL IN BALDUR’S GATE DON’T REALIZE THAT VAMPIRES ARE IN THEIR MIDST AND
ON THE PROWL
THIS CHAPTER INCLUDES RULES TO FLESH OUT CHARACTERS WHO HAVE TIES TO THE VAMPIRIC UNDERWORLD,
whether in Baldur’s Gate or another setting of your choosing.

--- PAGE 15 ---

Character Backgrounds
The backgrounds in this section are suitable for those whose past is intertwined with vampires or the company such creatures
tend to keep.
Each feat referenced is described in the “Feats” section later in this chapter. Backgrounds are further explained in the Player’s
Handbook.
Carouser
Ability Scores: Dexterity, Intelligence, Charisma
Feat:Tireless Reveler
Skill Proficiencies:Deception and Persuasion
Tool Proficiency:Choose one kind of Gaming Set
Equipment:Choose A or B: (A) Dagger, Gaming Set (same as above), Fine Clothes, Glass Bottle, Mirror, Perfume, Pouch,
Tinderbox, 19 GP; or (B) 50 GP
You grew to adulthood in the beating heart of a large city, such as Baldur’s Gate. You spent countless evenings in taverns,
playhouses, parlors, and gambling dens, savoring all the city had to offer. You’re a natural at interacting with people to learn their
secrets, whether over a high-stakes game or at a high-class soiree. You might have been thrown out of an establishment or ten, but
only by people who don’t know how to party.
Vampire Devotee
Ability Scores: Strength, Constitution, Charisma
Feat:Vampire’s Plaything
Skill Proficiencies:Persuasion and Stealth
Tool Proficiency:Cook’s Utensils
Equipment:Choose A or B: (A) Cook’s Utensils, Fine Clothes, 2 Glass Bottles, Healer’s Kit, Perfume, Lamp, Oil (3 flasks),
Waterskin, 19 GP; or (B) 50 GP
You were in service to a vampire or a small group of vampires lairing together. The Undead drank your blood more times than you
can count. You might have served willingly, perhaps with aspirations of one day becoming a vampire yourself. Or you might have
been magically charmed and retain only a few muddled memories of your time as a vampire familiar. In either case, your time in
the vampire den is over.
Vampire Sur vivor
Ability Scores: Dexterity, Constitution, Wisdom


--- PAGE 16 ---

Feat:Vampire Hunter
Skill Proficiencies:Insight and Religion
Tool Proficiency:Woodcarver’s Tools
Equipment:Choose A or B: (A) Woodcarver’s Tools, Crowbar, Hooded Lantern, Holy Symbol (reliquary), Holy Water, Mirror, Oil (3
flasks), Tinderbox, Traveler’s Clothes, Waterskin, 4 GP; or (B) 50 GP
You witnessed or survived a vampire attack. You might have been directly involved in this confrontation, or perhaps you were
frozen in terror by what you saw. Regardless, you remain vigilant for monster attacks and pride yourself on being ready for
anything. No vampire will catch you or your allies by surprise again.
“The streets at night teem with all types: the misguided, the oblivious, the
depraved. And then there are the drunken louts, the world-weary lovers, and the
harried survivors. I like to think of them each as a unique vintage.”
—ASTARION, NOCTURNAL SOMMELIER
A VAMPIRE DEVOTEEARTIST: LUCA BANCONE

--- PAGE 17 ---

Character Species
The Dhampir species is presented below.
Dhampir
Dhampirs are living people who possess vampiric prowess but are cursed with macabre hunger. Most dhampirs thirst for blood,
but some gain sustenance from dreams, life energy, or other vital sources. Dhampirs must choose whether to fight to control their
hunger or give in to predatory urges.
Dhampirs often arise from encounters with vampires; some are the descendants of a powerful vampire, while others are partially
transformed by a vampire’s bite. All manner of macabre bargains and necromantic influences might also give rise to a dhampir.
Regardless of their origins, dhampirs exhibit their vampiric nature in various ways, including increased speed and a life-draining
bite.
Dhampir Traits
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 4–7 feet tall) or Small (about 2–4 feet tall), chosen when you select this species
Speed: 35 feet
As a Dhampir, you have these special traits.
Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
Spider Climb. You have a Climb Speed equal to your Speed. When you reach character level 3, you can move up, down, and across
vertical surfaces and along ceilings while leaving your hands free.
Trace of Undeath. You have Resistance to Necrotic damage.
Vampiric Bite. When you use your Unarmed Strike and deal damage, you can choose to bite with your fangs. You deal Piercing
damage equal to 1d4 plus your Constitution modifier instead of the normal damage of an Unarmed Strike.
In addition, when you deal this damage to a creature that isn’t a Construct or an Undead, you can empower yourself in one of the
following ways:
Drain. You regain Hit Points equal to the Piercing damage dealt.
Strengthen. You gain a bonus to the next ability check or attack roll you make within the next minute; the bonus is equal to the
Piercing damage dealt.
You can empower yourself with this trait a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses
when you finish a Long Rest.
ARTIST: DAVID ASTRUGA

--- PAGE 18 ---

A DHAMPIR GAINS THE UPPER HAND AGAINST AN ENEMY

--- PAGE 19 ---

Feats
This section’s feats are organized by category—Origin, General, or Epic Boon—and alphabetized in each category. All the feats are
listed alphabetically in the Feat List table.
Fea t List
Feat Category
Bloodlust General
Bomber General
Boon of Blazing Dawn Epic Boon
Boon of Looming Shadows Epic Boon
Boon of Misty Escape Epic Boon
Cloying Mists General
Delicious Pain General
Light Bringer General
Love Bites General
Putrefy General
Rebuke General
Tireless Reveler Origin
Treacherous Allure General
Vampire Hunter Origin
Vampire’s Plaything Origin
Vampire Touched General

--- PAGE 20 ---

Origin Fea ts
These feats are in the Origin category.
Tireless Reveler
Origin Feat
When an ally you can see within 60 feet of yourself expends Heroic Inspiration, you can gain Heroic Inspiration if you lack it. You
can use this benefit a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Short
or Long Rest.
Vampire Hunter
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Adroit Escape. You have Advantage on checks to escape from nonmagical restraints or the Grappled condition.
Vitality Ward. When you take Necrotic damage, you can take a Reaction to mitigate the damage. Roll a number of d6s equal to
your Proficiency Bonus, and add them together. Reduce the Necrotic damage you take by this total. Once you use this benefit, you
can’t use it again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
Vampire’s Pla ything
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Decanting. When you finish a Long Rest, you can create one Potion of Healing or an Antitoxin, as long as you have an empty vial or
flask. These liquids evaporate when you finish another Long Rest.
Timely Retreat. You can take a Bonus Action to take the Dash action or the Disengage action. You can use this benefit a number
of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you recover all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
Vampiric Connection. The DM determines the fate of your former vampire master. While you and your former vampire master are
on the same plane of existence, the vampire can communicate with you telepathically, and you can choose to allow the vampire to
perceive through your senses.


--- PAGE 21 ---

You might ask: Are these tricks best for fighting or for seduction?
I say, my darlings, why not both?
—ASTARION THE MULTITALENTED

--- PAGE 22 ---

General Fea ts
These feats are in the General category.
Bloodlust
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Powerful Recovery. When you roll a Hit Point Die to regain Hit Points, you can treat any roll of 1 or 2 as a 3.
Sanguine Feast. Once per turn when you hit a Bloodied creature that isn’t a Construct or Undead with an attack roll, you can
expend a Hit Point Die, roll it, and regain a number of Hit Points equal to the number rolled plus your Constitution modifier.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a
Long Rest.
Bomber
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Far Lobber. When you use the Attack action to throw a vial or flask, you can target an object or creature you can see within 40 feet
of yourself.
Long Shots. Attacking at long range doesn’t impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls with Thrown weapons.
Cloying Mists
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Arise, Fog. You always have the Fog Cloud spell prepared. You can cast it without a spell slot, and you must finish a Long Rest
before you can cast it in this way again. You can also cast it using spell slots you have of the appropriate level. Your spellcasting
ability for the spell is the ability increased by this feat.
Grasping Mist. Whenever you cast Fog Cloud, nonmagical flames in the spell’s Sphere are extinguished, and creatures other than
you and your allies have their Speed reduced by 5 feet while in the spell’s Sphere.


--- PAGE 23 ---

Delicious P ain
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Toughened Flesh. Immediately after you take Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing damage, you can take a Reaction to gain
Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage until the start of your next turn. Once you use this benefit, you can’t use
it again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
Light Bringer
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Sacred Magic. You learn the Light spell and can cast it without Material components. If you already know that cantrip, you learn a
different Cleric cantrip of your choice. The spell’s spellcasting ability is the ability increased by this feat.
Solar Luminance. When you cast Light, you can have the light from the spell be sunlight. Once you use this benefit, you can’t use it
again until you finish a Long Rest.
Sun’s Healing. As a Bonus Action while within sunlight, you can expend one of your Hit Point Dice, roll the die, and regain a number
of Hit Points equal to the roll. Once you use this benefit, you can’t use it again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
Love Bites
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Endearing Pain. Immediately after you damage a creature with a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike, you can take a Bonus Action
to give the target the Charmed condition until the start of your next turn or until you or your allies damage it. Once you use this
benefit, you can’t use it again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
Putrefy
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)


--- PAGE 24 ---

You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Necrosis. When you make a damage roll that deals Necrotic damage, you can cause one creature taking that damage to have the
Poisoned condition until the start of your next turn. Once you use this benefit, you can’t use it again until you finish a Short or Long
Rest.
Rebuke
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Radiant Strike. When you make a damage roll that deals Radiant damage, you can cause one Huge or smaller creature taking the
damage to have the Prone condition. Once you use this benefit, you can’t use it again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
Treacherous Allure
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Enchanting Presence. You always have the Charm Person spell prepared. You can cast it without a spell slot, and you must finish
a Long Rest before you can cast it in this way again. You can also cast it using spell slots you have of the appropriate level. Your
spellcasting ability for the spell is the ability increased by this feat.
Inevitable Betrayal. You have Advantage on attack rolls against creatures with the Charmed condition.
Vampire Touched
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Vampire Magic. Choose one level 1 spell from the Enchantment or Illusion school of magic. You always have that spell and the
Spider Climb spell prepared. You can cast each of these spells without expending a spell slot, but when you cast Spider Climb this
way, you must target yourself, and you must finish a Long Rest before you can cast each spell in this way again. You can also cast
either spell using spell slots you have of the appropriate level. Your spellcasting ability for the spells is the ability increased by this
feat.


--- PAGE 25 ---

Cultivate these delightful talents to drive your enemies to their knees—or your
paramours.
—ASTARION, RELATIONSHIP COACH

--- PAGE 26 ---

Epic Boon Fea ts
These feats are in the Epic Boon category.
Boon of Blazing Da wn
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Beloved of the Sun. You have Immunity to Radiant damage.
Blazing Strike. When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, the damage can be Radiant or the weapon’s normal damage type
(your choice).
Burst of Sunlight. Once per turn when you hit a creature with an attack that deals Radiant damage, you can emit Bright Light in a
30-foot radius from yourself and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet until the start of your next turn. This light is sunlight.
Boon of Looming Shadows
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Shadowy Stretch. When you take the Attack action, your reach for your Melee weapon attacks increases by 10 feet until the end of
your turn.
Dancing Silhouette. You can take the Dodge action as a Bonus Action.
Boon of Misty Escape
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Gaseous Form. If you drop to 0 Hit Points but aren’t killed outright, you can instead drop to 1 Hit Point and cast Gaseous Form
without expending a spell slot (no action required). When you cast this spell this way, you can target only yourself, your Fly Speed
is 20 feet, and you regain 10 Hit Points at the start of each of your turns for the spell’s duration. The spell’s spellcasting ability is
the ability increased by this feat.
Once you use this benefit, you can’t do so again until you finish a Long Rest.
ARTIST: DAVID ASTRUGA

--- PAGE 27 ---

A VAMPIRE HUNTER TANGLES WITH A VAMPIRE

--- PAGE 28 ---

CHAPTER 2CHAPTER 2

--- PAGE 29 ---

↑ Creatures of the Night

--- PAGE 30 ---

ARTIST: BRAM SELS


--- PAGE 32 ---

Consult the Monster Manual for additional details about monsters.AN EXASPERATED ASTARION WATCHES HIS SISTER VIOLET FLIRT WITH A HARVESTER DEVIL
THIS CHAPTER DESCRIBES CREATURES ASSOCIATED WITH ASTARION, HIS MEPHISTOPHELES-WORSHIPING VAMPIRE
master, and the vampiric underworld. Some of these stat blocks appear in the adventures presented in chapter 3. You can
also use these creatures to populate your own vampire- or devil-themed adventures.

--- PAGE 33 ---

Cazador Szarr’s F amily
The vampire Cazador Szarr worships Mephistopheles, archduke of Cania in the Nine Hells. Cazador has created several vampire
spawn, including Astarion, who nocturnally roam the streets of Baldur’s Gate looking for victims to bring to their master. Cazador’s
“children” use the Vampire Spawn stat block and are Medium unless otherwise noted. Cazador is a Medium Vampire Infernalist.
Cazador’s Sp awn
Before the events of Baldur’s Gate 3, Cazador’s spawn included the following:
Antwun Dufay, once a human, is Cazador’s trusted chamberlain.
Astarion Ancunín, once an elf magistrate, is Cazador’s second spawn.
Aurelia, once a tiefling, is Cazador’s first spawn. Her calm surface demeanor conceals countless secrets.
Dalyria, once an elf and physician general to the Parliament of Baldur’s Gate, seeks to reverse her vampirism through desperate
medical measures.
Leon, once a human, was Cazador’s most recent spawn. He is desperate to protect his young daughter, Victoria, from the evils of
the palace.
Pale Petras, once a human, is Cazador’s third spawn and is known for his arrogance and stubbornness.
Violet, once an elf, is Cazador’s fourth spawn. She relishes tormenting her siblings and strives to please her master.
Yousen, who is Small, was once a gnome. He hunts victims for Cazador.
It may seem terrible, but I assure you, my family engages in no more devil
worshiping or murder than any other upstanding noble clan in Baldur’s Gate. And
at least our dinner guests have a screaming good time.
—ASTARION, SOCIAL COMMENTATOR

--- PAGE 34 ---

Fiendish Icon
Effigy Animated by Hellish Magic
Habitat: Urban; Treasure: None
Fiendish icons are grotesque, sapient statues depicting fearsome fiends.
These creatures gain life as a result of sinister rituals. Fiendish icons can
explode with hellfire to roast their foes, and they often pretend to be
ordinary statues until they leap up to ambush invaders.
Roll on or choose a result from the Fiendish Icon Appearances table to
inspire what a particular fiendish icon resembles.
Fiendish Icon Appearances
1d6 The Fiendish Icon Depicts …
1 A muscular, fiendish figure holding a lit candelabra.
2 A rotund imp licking a serrated knife.
3 A squat, robed figure with a forked tail poking from beneath its garments.
4 A cherub with sharp fangs and a hand outstretched in welcome.
5 Six crows perched atop each other in a roughly humanoid shape.
6 A horned fiend that bears an uncanny resemblance to one of the characters.
FIENDISH ICONARTIST: JOHN TEDRICK


--- PAGE 35 ---

Fiendish Icon
Small Construct, Lawful Evil
AC 13 Initiative +1 (11)
HP 22 (5d6 + 5)
Speed 30 ft.
Mod Save
Str15 +2 +2
Dex12 +1 +1
Con13 +1 +1
Mod Save
Int6 –2 –2
Wis11 +0 +0
Cha6 –2 –2
SkillsStealth +5
Immunities Fire, Poison; Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
SensesDarkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages Understands Common and Infernal but can’t speak
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The icon has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
The only thing uglier than these wretched statues are my siblings and I when the
servants forget to secure our blackout curtains.
—ASTARION ON FIENDISH ICONS

--- PAGE 36 ---

Multiattack. The icon makes two Slam attacks and uses Fiery Eruption.
Slam.Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) Bludgeoning damage.
Fiery Eruption.Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 11, each creature in a 5-foot Emanation originating from the icon. Failure: 7 (2d6) Fire
damage.

--- PAGE 37 ---

Harvester Devil
Devil of Guile and Temptation
Habitat: Planar (Nine Hells); Treasure:Implements
With a name that hints at their skill at gathering souls for the
Nine Hells, harvester devils are smooth-talking creatures that
resemble tieflings. Also known as falxugons among the ranks
of the Nine Hells, harvester devils have short horns and
expressive tails. Most harvester devils dress in flattering finery.
They promise wealth or influence to corruptible mortals, often
securing a deal with a contract they produce in a flash of
brimstone. This contract binds the mortal signatory’s soul to
the Nine Hells.
Harvester devils’ contracts are lengthy and convoluted, but
these devils are quick to make deals and might leave loopholes
that can save a signatory’s soul. Roll on or choose a result from
the Contract Loopholes table to inspire a loophole an astute
reader might discover.
Contract Loopholes
1d6 The Contract Is Void if the Signatory …
1 Delivers ninety nine other souls to Mephistopheles.
2 Stands under the light of a full moon and a half-moon simultaneously.
3 Renounces the contract while in the Abyss.
4 Is under the protection of another fiend.
5 Has an identical twin or clone.
6 Tricks the devil into signing any other contract.
HARVESTER DEVILARTIST: JOHN TEDRICK


--- PAGE 38 ---

Har vester Devil
Medium Fiend (Devil), Lawful Evil
AC 14 Initiative +3 (13)
HP 65 (10d8 + 20)
Speed 30 ft.
Mod Save
Str12 +1 +1
Dex17 +3 +3
Con14 +2 +4
Mod Save
Int14 +2 +2
Wis13 +1 +3
Cha19 +4 +4
SkillsPerception +3, Persuasion +8, Stealth +5
Resistances Cold
Immunities Fire, Poison; Charmed, Poisoned
SensesDarkvision 120 ft. (unimpeded by magical Darkness); Passive Perception 13
Languages Common, Infernal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 3 (XP 700; PB +2)
Traits
Unfortunately, finding these dandyish devils’ contractual loopholes is not nearly as
much fun as I had hoped.
—ASTARION ON HARVESTER DEVILS

--- PAGE 39 ---

Diabolic Ward. Attack rolls against the devil have Disadvantage. If the devil makes an attack roll, this trait is suppressed until the
start of its next turn.
Diabolical Restoration. If the devil dies outside the Nine Hells, its body disappears in sulfurous smoke, and it gains a new body
instantly, reviving with all its Hit Points somewhere in the Nine Hells.
Magic Resistance. The devil has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The devil makes two attacks, using Infernal Blade or Confounding Ray in any combination.
Infernal Blade.Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) Slashing damage and 7 (2d6) Fire damage.
Confounding Ray.Ranged Attack Roll: +5, range 120 ft. Hit: 13 (2d12) Psychic damage. If the target is a creature, it can’t make
Opportunity Attacks until the start of the devil’s next turn.
Compelling Contract (1/Day).Charisma Saving Throw: DC 14, one creature within 30 feet of the devil. Failure: The target has the
Charmed condition. While it is Charmed, it has the Stunned condition, except the target can speak. If the target agrees to the
devil’s contract, the effect ends. Otherwise, the target repeats the save whenever it takes damage and at the end of each of its
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically.

--- PAGE 40 ---

Speaker Devil
Devil of Spoken Compulsion
Habitat: Planar (Nine Hells), Urban; Treasure:Armaments
Speaker devils are hulking, four-armed devils who discover the
secrets of creatures they then compel to perform wicked
deeds. Despite their large tongues, speaker devils speak with
clear and pleasing voices. Among the ranks of the Nine Hells,
they are known as logokrons.
Many speaker devils are loyal to the archdevil Mephistopheles.
These devils record the secrets they uncover in Mephistar,
Mephistopheles’s vast library in Cania. While greedy to uncover
other creatures’ secrets, speaker devils diligently redact any
evidence of their own secrets, lest such knowledge be used
against them.
Speaker Devil
Large Fiend (Devil), Lawful Evil
AC 17 Initiative +4 (14)
HP 189 (18d10 + 90)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 30 ft.
SPEAKER DEVILARTIST: JOHN TEDRICK
I know what you’re thinking, and it’s simply a terrible idea. Yes, yes, I know. That
enormous tongue! And four arms! Oh, the possibilities! But trust me when I say it’ll
only end in tears.
—ASTARION ON SPEAKER DEVILS

--- PAGE 41 ---

Mod Save
Str21 +5 +5
Dex19 +4 +4
Con20 +5 +9
Mod Save
Int22 +6 +10
Wis18 +4 +8
Cha17 +3 +7
SkillsArcana +10, History +10, Perception +8
Resistances Cold
Immunities Fire, Poison; Poisoned
SensesDarkvision 120 ft. (unimpeded by magical Darkness); Passive Perception 18
Languages Infernal; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 12 (XP 8,400; PB +4)
Traits
Diabolical Restoration. If the devil dies outside the Nine Hells, its body disappears in sulfurous smoke, and it gains a new body
instantly, reviving with all its Hit Points somewhere in the Nine Hells.
Magic Resistance. The devil has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The devil makes two Thundering Halberd attacks.
Thundering Halberd.Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 10 ft. Hit: 16 (2d10 + 5) Slashing damage plus 14 (4d6) Thunder damage.
Spellcasting. The devil casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material components and using Intelligence as the
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18):
At Will:Detect Magic, Detect Thoughts
2/Day Each:Dimension Door, Modify Memory
Bonus Actions

--- PAGE 42 ---

Utterance of Pain.Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 18, each creature in a 20-foot Emanation originating from the devil. Failure: The
target has the Stunned condition until the end of the devil’s next turn.
Utterance of Unmaking.Constitution Saving Throw: DC 18, each creature in a 20-foot Emanation originating from the devil. Failure:
22 (4d10) Force damage. Success: Half damage.

--- PAGE 43 ---

Vampire Infernalist
Vampire Arcanist of the Nine Hells
Habitat: Planar (Nine Hells), Underdark, Urban; Treasure:Arcana
While mortal wizards tend to hesitate before bartering their souls to devils for magical power, vampire wizards often believe their
immortality will exempt them from any infernal claim to their souls. The archdevil Mephistopheles happily exploits such hubris and
proves that even undead aren’t immune to the laws of the Nine Hells.
The greatest hell-bound vampires are masters of hellfire called infernalists, who prey on mages. Vampire infernalists are usually
too arrogant to work together; even a large city isn’t likely to harbor more than one vampire infernalist. Vampire infernalists are
dormant during the day, retreating to resting places hidden from the sun’s searing rays before emerging at night to commit
unsavory deeds.
Vampire Infernalist Lairs
Vampire infernalists lurk in gloomy libraries or ritual chambers, far from the sun’s light.
The region containing an infernalist’s lair is warped by its presence, creating the following effects, all of which happen at the
vampire’s discretion:
Diabolic Beasts. Animals in the vampire’s domain serve the vampire’s will. From dusk until dawn, Medium or smaller Beasts have
the Charmed condition while within 1 mile of the lair.
THE VAMPIRE CAZADOR SZARR DINES ON A VICTIM WHO VIOLET AND AURELIA, CAZADOR’S VAMPIRE SPAWN,
LURED TO HIS MANORARTIST: ANDREA PIPARO

--- PAGE 44 ---

Drained Essence. Grasping shadows within 1 mile of the lair sap the body and mind. Creatures (excluding the vampire and its
allies) that finish a Short or Long Rest while within 1 mile of the lair make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a
creature can’t spend Hit Point Dice at the end of the rest and doesn’t regain Hit Points, Hit Point Dice, or spell slots at the end of
the rest.
Tenacious Lore. Within 1 mile of the lair, flame doesn’t burn written material.
If the infernalist dies or moves its lair elsewhere, these effects end immediately.
Vampire Infernalist
Medium or Small Undead (Wizard), Lawful Evil
AC 16 Initiative +13 (23)
HP 172 (23d8 + 69)
Speed 40 ft., Fly 40 ft. (hover)
Mod Save
Str19 +4 +4
Dex16 +3 +3
Con17 +3 +8
Mod Save
Int20 +5 +10
Wis16 +3 +3
Cha18 +4 +4
SkillsArcana +10, Perception +8, Religion +10, Stealth +8
Resistances Fire, Necrotic, Poison
Wha t?! A vampire who’s sold their soul to Mephistopheles for even more power?
Wound not my unbeating heart. Tell me it’s not true!
Oh, wait. Of course it is.
—ASTARION ON VAMPIRE INFERNALISTS

--- PAGE 45 ---

ImmunitiesPoisoned
GearOrb
SensesDarkvision 120 ft. (unimpeded by magical Darkness); Passive Perception 18
Languages Common, Infernal
CR 14 (XP 11,500, or 13,000 in its lair; PB +5)
Traits
Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair). If the vampire fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Misty Escape. If the vampire drops to 0 Hit Points outside its resting place, the vampire uses Shape-Shift to become mist (no
action required). If it can’t use Shape-Shift, it is destroyed.
While it has 0 Hit Points in mist form, it can’t return to its vampire form, and it must reach its resting place within 2 hours or be
destroyed. Once in its resting place, it returns to its vampire form and has the Paralyzed condition until it regains any Hit Points,
and it regains 1 Hit Point after spending 1 hour there.
Vampire Weakness. The vampire has these weaknesses:
Forbiddance. The vampire can’t enter a residence without an invitation from an occupant.
Running Water. The vampire takes 20 Acid damage if it ends its turn in running water.
Stake to the Heart. If a weapon that deals Piercing damage is driven into the vampire’s heart while the vampire has the
Incapacitated condition in its resting place, the vampire has the Paralyzed condition until the weapon is removed.
Sunlight. The vampire takes 20 Radiant damage if it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has Disadvantage on attack rolls
and ability checks.
Actions
Multiattack (Vampire Form Only). The vampire makes two Hellfire Claw attacks and uses Bite.
Hellfire Claw (Vampire Form Only).Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 ft. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Slashing damage plus 10 (3d6) Fire damage.
If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 17) from one of two claws.
Bite (Imp or Vampire Form Only).Constitution Saving Throw: DC 18, one creature within 5 feet that is willing or that has the
Grappled, Incapacitated, or Restrained condition. Failure: 6 (1d4 + 4) Piercing damage plus 16 (3d10) Necrotic damage and the
creature loses its highest-level available spell slot (if any). The target’s Hit Point maximum decreases by an amount equal to the
Necrotic damage taken, and the vampire regains Hit Points equal to that amount. A Humanoid reduced to 0 Hit Points by this
damage and then buried rises the following sunset as a Vampire Spawn under the vampire’s control.
Spellcasting. The vampire casts one of the following spells, using Intelligence as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18):
At Will:Detect Magic, Detect Thoughts, Dispel Magic, Fireball (level 4 version), Mage Hand, Prestidigitation
2/Day:Scrying
1/Day:Wall of Fire
Bonus Actions
Shape-Shift. If the vampire isn’t in sunlight or running water, it shape-shifts into a Tiny imp (Speed 20 ft., Fly Speed 40 ft.), or a
Medium cloud of mist (Speed 5 ft., Fly Speed 20 ft. [hover]), or it returns to its vampire form. Anything it is wearing transforms with

--- PAGE 46 ---

it.
While in imp form, the vampire’s game statistics, other than its size and Speed, are unchanged.
While in mist form, the vampire can’t take any actions, speak, or manipulate objects. It is weightless and can enter an enemy’s
space and stop there. If air can pass through a space, the mist can do so, but it can’t pass through liquid. It has Resistance to all
damage, except the damage it takes from sunlight.
Legendary Actions
Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature’s turn, the vampire can expend a use to take one of the
following actions. The vampire regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Hellfire Strike. The vampire moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Hellfire Claw attack.
Infernal Majesty.Charisma Saving Throw: DC 17, each creature in a 20-foot Emanation originating from the vampire. Failure: 9
(2d8) Psychic damage, and the target has the Frightened condition until the start of its next turn. Success: Half damage only.
Failure or Success: The vampire can’t take this action again until the start of its next turn.
Teleport. The vampire teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.

--- PAGE 47 ---

Vampire Warden
Stone-Skinned, Blood-Drinking Guardian
Habitat: Underdark, Urban; Treasure: Any
Vampires need trusted guards for their lairs, minions, and treasures. After all, vampire familiars don’t live for long and are
inattentive while sleeping or simpering. Monstrous servants are often too unpredictable or simply unreliable. To keep their lairs
safe, some vampires create more durable spawn to serve as watchful guardians. These vampire wardens appear to have the same
pallid flesh as most vampires but, through sheer force of will, can shrug off blows that might fell others. When most vampires
would be destroyed, a warden turns to stone, heals itself, and is ready for service once again.
Vampire Warden
Medium Undead, Neutral Evil
AC 18 Initiative +6 (16)
HP 190 (21d8 + 96)
Speed 30 ft.
Mod Save
Str21 +5 +5
Dex15 +2 +2
Con18 +4 +8
Mod Save
Int10 +0 +0
Wis14 +2 +6
Cha17 +3 +3
SkillsAthletics +9, Perception +10
Ah, these stony-skinned prats: the insufferable watchdogs of vampirekind.
I once tried to play fetch with one of ours. It didn’t go well.
—ASTARION ON VAMPIRE WARDENS

--- PAGE 48 ---

Resistances Necrotic
ImmunitiesExhaustion, Frightened
SensesDarkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 20
Languages Common
CR 10 (XP 5,900; PB +4)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The vampire has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Vampire Weakness. The vampire has these weaknesses:
Forbiddance. The vampire can’t enter a residence without an invitation from an occupant.
Running Water. The vampire takes 20 Acid damage if it ends its turn in running water.
Stake to the Heart. If a weapon that deals Piercing damage is driven into the vampire’s heart while the vampire has the
Incapacitated condition, the vampire has the Paralyzed condition until the weapon is removed.
Sunlight. The vampire takes 20 Radiant damage if it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has Disadvantage on attack rolls
and ability checks.
Immobile Restoration. If the vampire drops to 0 Hit Points while it doesn’t have the Petrified condition, it turns to stone, regains 50
Hit Points, and has the Petrified condition for 1 hour.
Actions
Multiattack. The vampire makes two Claw attacks and uses Bite or Guardian’s Command.
Claw.Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 ft. Hit: 14 (2d8 + 5) Slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) Necrotic damage. If the target is a Large or
smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 16) from one of two claws.
Bite.Constitution Saving Throw: DC 16, one creature within 5 feet that is willing or that has the Grappled, Incapacitated, or
Restrained condition. Failure: 7 (1d4 + 5) Piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) Necrotic damage. The target’s Hit Point maximum
decreases by an amount equal to the Necrotic damage taken, and the vampire regains Hit Points equal to that amount.
Guardian’s Command. The vampire casts Compulsion, requiring no spell components and using Charisma as the spellcasting
ability (spell save DC 15).
Reactions
Resilient Flesh.Trigger: The vampire is hit by a melee attack roll from an attacker the vampire can see. Response: The vampire
reduces the damage it takes from the attack by 11 (2d6 + 4).

--- PAGE 49 ---

CHAPTER 3CHAPTER 3

--- PAGE 50 ---

↑ Adventures with Astarion
ARTIST: CLINT CEARLEY


--- PAGE 52 ---

This chapter provides all the tools you need to set adventures in Rat’s Run. The details herein assume your game unfolds prior to
the events of Baldur’s Gate 3 and that your players wish to adventure alongside Astarion. However, you can set your game in Rat’s
Run during any period, with or without involving Astarion.THE MANAGER OF RAT’S RUN, LIEF CLOUDSWELL, MAKES IT KNOWN THAT THE TAVERN IS A REFUGE FOR SAILORS
AND SCOUNDRELS ALIKE
ASTARION HAS FREQUENTED SEVERAL SEEDY ESTABLISHMENTS DURING HIS TIME IN BALDUR’S GATE, BUT THE INN
and tavern called Rat’s Run was one of his favorite hunting grounds. Here, he hunted undetected, blending into the crowds of
inebriated patrons and luring victims into darkened alleys. He’d drag these unfortunate souls back to Cazador’s palace, where the
vampire master would feast on the victims’ blood.

--- PAGE 53 ---

Rat’s Run Adventures
This section presents short adventures in Rat’s Run. In these adventures, characters should be Astarion’s associates or infamous
by reputation in the seedier parts of Baldur’s Gate. The characters might be mercenaries, bodyguards, fixers, or other agents for
hire. The characters needn’t be wicked, but law-abiding citizens might find their ethics challenged by these adventures.
When encounters take place in locations with NPCs described in the “Rat’s Run Locations” section later in this chapter, those
NPCs take cover or run when combat breaks out. All encounters take place on Map: Rat's Run, found later in this chapter. Monster
stat blocks referenced appear in chapter 2 of the Monster Manual.
If you’d rather create your own adventures involving Astarion at Rat’s Run, roll on or choose from the Rat’s Run Plots table to
inspire your games.
Ra t’s Run Plots
1d4 Astarion …
1 Realizes several regular Rat’s Run customers have disappeared recently. The culprit is Celia (Medium Vampire
Nightbringer), who is Cazador Szarr’s enemy. Celia was once a human.
2Wants to hire the gnome Braig Littletoe (Small Bandit) to source a powerful magic item Astarion believes will temporarily
free him from Cazador’s control.
3Has hired a pair of human vampire hunters named Tarena and Tali (Medium Bandit Captains) to assassinate Violet.
Unfortunately, Violet has discovered this plan and has turned the vampire hunters on Astarion.
4Has lured too many customers to their death, and the manager of Rat’s Run has placed a bounty on Astarion. Astarion
visits the tavern with the characters and doesn’t know the regulars plan to kill him.
Family Outreach
Adventure for Level 3 Characters
Situation. Violet, the most recent vampire spawn in Cazador’s “family,” is trying to kill Astarion. Violet has sown the seeds of
several plots to ensure Astarion dies at Rat’s Run, which she knows he frequents. Violet awaits the results of her plan at Cazador’s
palace; she fears Cazador’s wrath should Astarion’s death be tied to her, so she won’t try to kill him herself.
Hook. Astarion recognized Violet in disguise days ago and eavesdropped on her conversation with the leader of the Bloody Knives,
a local gang. Astarion asks the characters to join him at Rat’s Run and help him thwart the threat, as he assumes Violet is plotting
his destruction at the tavern he frequents. Astarion (Medium Vampire Spawn) is willing to pay each character 150 GP apiece plus
the promise of a future favor.
Encounters
The adventure consists of these encounters. At your discretion, Astarion fights alongside the characters.
First Blood. Five human members of the Bloody Knives confront Astarion and the characters near the bar (area R2a) and begin
combat. These include the leaders Bretta and Sorven (Medium, Neutral Evil Bandit Captains) and their lackeys, three Toughs. Other
patrons scatter when the Bloody Knives begin combat.
If the characters capture any of these assailants, the foes admit Violet hired them. Violet told the gang members that she wishes
to eliminate Astarion quietly without participating in the crime herself.
Ambush. A hooded figure slips a note into Astarion’s hand. The note asks him to meet a friend upstairs. The courier, if accosted,
reveals himself to be a human named Chase (Medium Commoner), who doesn’t know the identity of the person who paid him 10

--- PAGE 54 ---

GP to deliver the note. After receiving the note, Astarion heads upstairs and beckons the characters to follow.
Lurking on the inn’s walkway (area R6) are two Fiendish Icons and a Helmed Horror, all of which Violet stealthily brought from
Cazador’s palace. The monsters are attempting to pass as decor and ambush the characters when they enter the area. If the
characters don’t intend to go upstairs, the monsters head downstairs to fight them.
Final Foe. Two Harvester Devils lurk in one of the inn’s rooms (area R9a). Summoned by Violet to ensure Astarion and any allies
die, the devils creep out of their hiding place to fight. If the characters and Astarion are ambushed on the walkway, the devils join
the fight on Initiative count 0 of the second round (losing Initiative ties). Otherwise, the devils head downstairs to confront the
characters after the Bloody Knives fall.
Conclusion. If Astarion survives the adventure, each character earns a bonus 400 XP. Once the characters are at least level 4,
consider running an encounter with Violet (Medium Vampire Spawn)and one or more Harvester Devil or Fiendish Icon allies.
The Wayward Son
Adventure for Level 12 Characters
Situation. Cazador, Astarion’s vampire master, is fed up with Astarion’s disobedience. The vampire plans to find Astarion,
incapacitate him, and take him back to his palace for punishment.
Hook. Astarion (Medium Vampire Spawn) invites the characters to Rat’s Run to socialize. Astarion then notices several disguised
members of Cazador’s “family” lurking among the crowd. Astarion suspects trouble and asks the characters to help protect him.
Encounters
The adventure consists of these encounters.
Surrounded. While sitting at the bar (area R2a) with the characters, Astarion recognizes two Vampire Wardens from Cazador’s
palace. The wardens are blocking the public exit to Rat’s Run. Certain that someone from the palace wants to kidnap him, Astarion
sneaks upstairs to avoid the wardens until the trouble blows over.
If the characters follow Astarion, they must remain inconspicuous while moving with him toward a staircase to area R6. Each
character makes a DC 13 Dexterity (Stealth) check. If the checks are successful, the wardens don’t notice the group. On a failed
check, the vampire wardens notice the group and begin combat.
No Safe Spaces. If the characters fight the wardens downstairs, the two Speaker Devils lurking upstairs hear the fray. The devils
head downstairs and join the fight on Initiative count 0 of the second round (losing Initiative ties).
If the characters and Astarion make it upstairs without alerting the wardens, Astarion suggests picking the lock to one of the inn
rooms (area R9c) to lie low inside. The doors are made of wood. The lock is Simple (1 action to pick) and Good quality (DC 15).
When the characters enter a room, the two Speaker Devils are hiding within and begin combat without hesitation. If the characters
don’t enter a room, the devils attack after 1 minute.
Ever since she crawled out of her grave, my sniveling sister Violet has been
murderously jealous of me. She thinks I want to humiliate her at every turn.
It’s laughable, but if she won’t leave me be, I’ll need to dig her a deeper grave—this
time, one she’ll never leave.
—ASTARION, SIBLING RIVAL

--- PAGE 55 ---

Angry Vampire. After the characters defeat the devils, they encounter Cazador (Medium Vampire Infernalist) when they try to
leave Rat’s Run. The vampire is accompanied by two of his Vampire Spawn. If the characters reduce Cazador to 40 HP, the vampire
screams promises to punish Astarion later, uses Shape-Shift to turn into mist, and escapes.
Conclusion. If Astarion escapes, he rewards the characters with a Manual of Gainful Exercise, and each character also earns a
bonus 4,700 XP.
If the characters are killed or knocked unconscious, Astarion is subdued and brought back to Cazador’s palace.
A particularly reckless breed of sailors frequents Rat’s Run.To them, death lurks
around every corner, whether it’s on the stormy sea or here among an ocean of
criminals. Some might say these sailors have a death wish—one I’m more than
happy to fulfill.
—ASTARION, GRIM NAVIGATOR
ASTARION’S MANY ENEMIES KNOW HE FREQUENTS RAT’S RUN AND MIGHT TRY TO AMBUSH HIM THEREARTIST: ANDREA PIPARO

--- PAGE 56 ---

Rat’s Run Tavern and Inn
Rat’s Run lies a stone’s throw away from Gray Harbor in Baldur’s Gate. A tavern and inn of questionable repute, this Seatower
neighborhood establishment has been a home for centuries to rowdy crowds of sailors and those who prefer to ply their trades in
the shadows. At first glance, Rat’s Run is a disheveled place where shady elements loom large. Deeper down, the establishment is
more sinister.
Mysterious Leadership
The staff members of Rat’s Run include retired sailors as well as those working off debts to various overlords. The staff members
report to a manager, who runs the establishment and is loyal to its mysterious owner.
Reigra Cla wcroft
For the past two hundred years, a Rakshasa named Reigra Clawcroft has owned Rat’s Run. Reigra was once a fearsome pirate
captain who took the guise of a tattooed tiefling. When she won ownership of Rat’s Run from a drunken merchant, the rakshasa
saw an opportunity to expand her power. She retired from privateering, intent on easier paydays.
To distance herself from her previous identity, Reigra now disguises herself as a stalwart human woman. The rakshasa has tasked
the manager of Rat’s Run with encouraging villainy from which Reigra stands to profit. Reigra lives in a palatial abode in the Upper
City, though the rakshasa occasionally stays at Rat’s Run on business or to check on her employees. When staff members report a
problematic patron, sometimes Reigra takes it on herself to solve the issue—luring her victim into a shadowy alley, revealing her
true nature, and consuming her prey.
Lief Cloudswell
For the past fifteen years, the manager of Rat’s Run has been the goliath Lief Cloudswell (Medium, Chaotic Neutral Pirate). With
emerald eyes and a heavy smattering of tattoos, Lief is a former sailor expelled from her crew for stealing from her shipmates. On
the run from those seeking vengeance, Lief long ago made a deal with Reigra: The rakshasa protects Lief from her enemies, and in
exchange Lief follows orders unquestioningly. Lief is gruff but outwardly kind; she has an especially soft spot for outlaws.
Curious about the owner of Rat’s Run? All I’ll say is that kitty’s got claws—the
backward claws of a rakshasa, that is.
—ASTARION, SCANDALOUS REPORTER

--- PAGE 57 ---

If your game takes place after the events of Baldur’s Gate 3, another individual from the Rat’s Run Managers table should oversee
the establishment.
Rat’s Run Managers
1d4 Name Description Stat Block
1 Kyral Blacksteel Dwarf retired assassin’s guild lieutenant; cruel (Medium, Neutral Evil Assassin)
2Dirk “Scarbrow” Jenkins Human retired sailor; sadistic (Medium, Chaotic Evil Pirate)
3 Yerna Goldtooth Orc retired pirate; joyful (Medium, Chaotic Neutral Pirate)
4 Gerry Undretide Black-scaled dragonborn retired sailor; wise(Medium, Chaotic Neutral Tough Boss)
Rowdy Watering Hole
On the surface, all are welcome at Rat’s Run. For sailors, Rat’s Run offers fresher ale, tastier grub, and warmer beds than any ship.
Despite the shadowy characters who often lurk in the tavern’s snug booths, the camaraderie is tight knit at Rat’s Run. For some
wayward sailors, the regulars and staff at the establishment are the closest thing they have had to a family.
Den of Villainy
Underneath the veneer of Rat’s Run, reality is harsh. Thieves, smugglers, racketeers, and other criminals see Rat’s Run as a haven,
and for good reason. Staff members warn any patron associated with law enforcement to leave and never return; those who defy
these instructions become Reigra’s victims.
Further, representatives of criminal organizations make regular payments of coins, valuables, or magic items to the
establishment’s manager. In exchange, staff members hide these patrons’ wrongdoings, including holding smuggled goods in
secret rooms, destroying evidence of crimes, and ensuring that no witnesses ever speak to the authorities. Each week, the
manager gives these bribes to a hooded, ever-changing courier who, of course, knows nothing about their boss.
Haven for Preda tors
The rampant criminality at Rat’s Run means purses frequently disappear from drunken patrons, bar fights occasionally turn deadly,
and sometimes individuals go missing and never return. For the latter reason, Astarion considers Rat’s Run a diamond in the
rough: a place from which he can lure victims to Cazador’s palace and assume no one will care to investigate their disappearance.
Astarion is also friendly with Roka, a tavern patron and kenku agent for the Guild (see area R2d in “Rat’s Run Locations”). The
vampire spawn occasionally hunts individuals Roka has designated for elimination.
Tavern and Inn
Characters can rent a room, order food, and buy a drink at Rat’s Run.
Inn
Characters who wish to rent a room must speak with the manager. They can be found at the main bar (area R2a) during the day
and in the manager’s administrative office or bedroom (areas R10 and R11) at night. A room costs 5 SP per day.
Tavern
Ale, rum, whiskey, and wine are available all day from the main bar (area R2a) for 4 CP per drink. Meals are available for order
during the day at the kitchen (area R3). Each meal costs 1 SP.
ARTIST: MIKE SCHLEY

--- PAGE 59 ---

RAT'S RUN(DM-VERSION ABOVE, PLAYER-VERSION BELOW)


--- PAGE 61 ---

General Fea tures
Hundreds of years old, Rat’s Run is built from weathered wooden timbers reinforced with red brick. Its floors are made of grimy
wood. The building’s other features are described below:
Ceilings. On the first and second floors, the establishment’s ceilings are 15 feet high. Ceilings on the third floor are 8 feet high.
Doors. As a 24-hour establishment, Rat’s Run features first-floor front and side doors that are always unlocked. Interior doors on
the first floor are always unlocked. Doors on the second-floor inn are made of wood and locked. Locks are Simple (1 action to pick)
and Good quality (DC 15).
Lighting. On the first two floors, most areas are lit with Continual Flame spells placed on sconces shaped like ship figureheads.
Areas R12 and R13 on the third floor are unlit.
Rat’s Run Loca tions
Rat’s Run consists of a tavern and kitchen on the first floor, an inn on the second floor, and hideaways on the third floor.
The following locations are keyed to the Rat’s Run map.
R1: Entr yway
This entryway is decorated with nautical equipment the patrons of Rat’s Run have donated over the years, along with graffitied
messages. Phrases in Common include “Scalawags live here” and “No law but the sea’s,” as well as other choice declarations and
illegible scribbles.
Security Guards. At night, two humans work as security guards at Rat’s Run. Ferock and Deitre Grensworth (Medium Toughs), who
are married, sit on the benches that flank this area.
Ferock and Deitre deny entry to anyone who is visibly a member of any law enforcement organization, claiming the establishment
is full even if it’s not. The guards fight any creature denied entrance that tries to enter the main hall (area R2), calling to other staff
members and friendly sailors for help if needed. If a brawl breaks out in the main hall, Ferock and Deitre join the fray after 1 minute
and attempt to quell the violence.
During the day, Ferock and Deitre are off duty. They typically can be found eating and drinking in the main hall or sleeping in an
unoccupied inn room (area R9).
R2: Main HallSplintered oars, frayed ropes, and torn sails adorn these walls, along with writing scribbled in chalk. Steps lead
down into a hall from which the din of carousing sailors echoes.
Rough-and-tumble sailors make merry in this sprawling hall, whether it’s at the large, central wooden bar or at the
large tables arranged around it. Private booths populated with quieter, dark-cloaked individuals surround the
hectic clientele.

--- PAGE 62 ---

Open at all hours, the main hall is a key gathering spot for sailors in Baldur’s Gate and a prime location where criminals discuss
shady deals.
R2a. The bar is well stocked with dozens of varieties of ale, rum, whiskey, and wine of varying quality. Individuals drown their
sorrows on the stools around the bar, while more boisterous groups use to the east and west.
The primary daytime bartender is the gruff goliath Lief Cloudswell (Medium, Chaotic Neutral Pirate), who also rents rooms in the
inn upstairs to customers. Lief carries a key to the lockbox in area R10 and to her drawer in area R11. At any time, if Lief suspects
anyone is an agent of the law, she instructs them to leave. She shouts for help from Ferock and Deitre, both in area R1, if anyone
gives her too much trouble.
At night, Lief retires to her administrative office or bedroom (areas R10 and R11). The evening bartenders are two dwarf sisters,
Sera and Grenda Stonecrusher (Medium, Chaotic Neutral Bandits), who are cheerful and unwaveringly loyal to Lief.
R2b. These long tables are reserved for patrons who wish to play cards, dice, or other games of chance. A regular, fast-talking
patron known as Palm-Slicer (Small Mage Apprentice) runs games of Three-Dragon Ante here every day. A halfling, Palm-Slicer’s
real name is Finkus Berrybranch. Unknown to the other staff members, Palm-Slicer is in Lief Cloudswell’s private employ and
informs the manager of all rumors he hears.
R2c. Thin, sliding wooden doors allow patrons in each of these booths a measure of privacy. Criminals, many of whom are high-
ranking members of powerful outfits, often meet here to discuss illegal deals.
The shifty gnome fenceBraig Littletoe (Small Bandit) uses this area as his base of operations. Although not part of a larger
organization, Braig has fenced valuable and embarrassing spoils for some of the most prominent players in Baldur’s Gate. Braig
knows powerful secrets and is willing to ally with anyone who will protect him from his enemies.
R2d. This collection of small tables is a favorite gathering place for members of the Guild, a powerful criminal organization in the
city. Every day, the elegant but taciturn Kenku Roka Glimmerbeak enjoys an ale and a meat pie from their reserved table in the
corner. Roka delivers messages to Guild operatives and entertains those who wish to contact the elusive Guildmaster as well,
though only the worthiest messages make it to the leader.
R2e. The table and booths here are more comfortably furnished than the rest of the main hall. Ship captains often relax here, the
corner offering a minor buffer from the hall’s rowdy sailors.
R3: Kit chen
Behind the closed doors of the main hall’s private booths, you’d be shocked how
easily I can entice fools into wandering home with me. I always promise they’ll
experience the feast of a lifetime—and I always deliver.
—ASTARION, MORBID MAÎTRE D’
The main hall is separated from the kitchen by a wide, low bar, behind which aproned staff busily prepare meals.
A chalkboard hung over the bar reads “Meat pie, fish stew, peas with mash: 1 SP each.”

--- PAGE 63 ---

Patrons line up along the bar here to order food from the kitchen. Staff members place cooked meals on the bar, where patrons
pick them up.
Staff. The head cook is Heska “Biggles” Tusktooth (Medium Pirate), an orc with a wide grin and a commanding voice. Biggles
carries a key to the cabinet in area R4.
Helping Biggles as assistant cooks are Darius Winters (Medium Commoner), a talkative tiefling; Alexia Bonderbath (Medium
Bandit), a no-nonsense human; and Filona Truescale (Medium, Chaotic Neutral Bandit), an effusive dragonborn. If the kitchen is
slow, Biggles sends her assistant cooks into the main hall to take food orders, run drinks to tables, or do other tasks as Lief sees
fit.
Treasure. The cabinets in the northeast corner hold pots, pans, baking trays, utensils, and other kitchen equipment. In addition,
there are six butcher knives that function as Daggers.
The shelves below the central prep table holds cooking supplies, including three candles and three different containers that
function as a Vial of Acid, Alchemist’s Fire, and Oil. On the table is an enchanted knife that functions as a +1 Dagger.
R4: P antr y
These shelves contain flour, sugar, spices, lard, salted meat, and other bulk ingredients.
Treasure. As a Utilize action, a character can try to pick the padlock using Thieves’ Tools, doing so with a successful DC 15
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. On a successful check, the cabinet opens, revealing three Potions of Healing and a purse with
50 GP in it.
R5: Privies
These privies connect to the city’s sewers. At nightfall each day, a staff member wipes down the wash basin and each makeshift
stall.
R6: Inn Walkw ay
This upper-floor walkway is accessible from the main hall (area R2) via three sets of stairs.Boxes and jars of ingredients line the walls. In a corner next to stacked kegs of ale and shanks of salted meat, a
tall cabinet is padlocked.
Running the lengths of this small enclosure are tattered black curtains, behind which are holes in the floorboards
used as privies. A small wash basin abuts the room’s west end.
This narrow, wooden walkway provides access to the inn’s guest rooms. A railing made of narrow slats separates
this floor from the main hall below.

--- PAGE 64 ---

R7: Sp acious Inn Rooms
These rooms are more comfortable than the inn’s others. Lief reserves them for patrons who command respect or who are in her
good graces.
When Reigra infrequently spends the night at Rat’s Run, the rakshasa occupies one of these rooms.
Secret Door. Each of these rooms has a secret door hidden behind the wooden panels in the south wall. A character in one of
these rooms can take the Search action and make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, finding the secret door on a successful
check. Behind each door lies a narrow, wooden corridor (area R8).
R8: Secret Corridor
This claustrophobic space is empty save for the ladder, which leads to area R13.
R9: Inn Rooms
Lief rents these rooms to anyone who will pay and seems unbothered by any shady affairs they might witness.
R10: Administra tive Office
Lief handles the organizational affairs of Rat’s Run from this office. She also stores bribes from criminals here.
At night, the manager works on paperwork or sleeps in her bedroom in area R11. She keeps the door locked while she’s in here.
During the day, the room is unoccupied and locked.
Treasure. On the desk are records related to the inventory, room reservations, and staff payroll.This spacious, wooden-paneled room contains a fireplace, bed, desk, chair, washing basin, trunk, and closet.
Rumpled curtains frame a window to the south.
Near the center of the ceiling in this narrow wooden corridor is a five-foot-square gap. A ladder leading from the
ground up into the gap leans against the wall.
Brick-and-wood walls encase this modest room, which contains a bed, trunk, washing basin, and fireplace. A
small window is devoid of affectation.
A wooden sign hung on this room’s door reads “Private! Keep out!”

--- PAGE 65 ---

Inside a desk drawer, a lockbox holds bribes for Reigra that a courier hasn’t yet retrieved. As a Utilize action, a character can try to
pick the lock using Thieves’ Tools, doing so with a successful DC 20 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.
The lockbox contains the following:
310 GP
One amethyst worth 100 GP
Three pure black onyxes worth 50 GP each
Spell Scroll of Blur
Spell Scroll of Color Spray
Spell Scroll of Fear
Wand of Fireballs
R11: Manager’s Bedroom
These are Lief’s personal quarters. The wardrobe contains assorted, nondescript clothing.
Secret Door. Behind wooden paneling in the west wall is a secret door. A character in the bedroom can take the Search action and
make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, finding the secret door on a successful check. Behind the door lies a staircase leading
up to area R12.
Bed Frame Drawer. The bed frame drawer is locked. As a Utilize action, a character can try to pick the lock using Thieves’ Tools,
doing so with a successful DC 20 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.
Treasure. The drawer contains Lief’s personal savings: a purse with 500 GP in it. It also contains a Potion of Vitality, a personal
gift a patron gave Lief in exchange for protection from Luskan assassins.
R12: Attic
This attic serves as storage as well as a convenient hiding spot for smuggled goods. Most of the boxes contain supplies for the
tavern and inn, such as furniture repair tools, extra metal flatware and cutlery, bed linens, and cleaning implements. The northwest
shelves bear tattered sails, fishing nets, and other donations Lief eventually plans to display in the establishment’s entryway (area
R1).Tucked into this small, wood-paneled room is a modest but comfortable bed with a drawer built into its frame.
An ornate wooden wardrobe and washing basin, each carved with nautical-themed designs, are nestled in the
corner.
Wooden storage crates are stacked in groups throughout this low-ceilinged attic. A thin layer of dusts covers all
but the northeasternmost stack of boxes. Discarded nautical equipment sits along shelves to the northwest,
while grime obscures the view out of the southern window.

--- PAGE 66 ---

Dustless Boxes. The northeast boxes are labeled in bold capital letters as containing flour. Inside the boxes are cotton drawstring
sacks with similar labels. However, inside each sack are carefully wrapped paper packages containing a rare and beautiful variety
of basilisk scales used for decorating high-end clothing. The boxes contain thirty packages altogether, and each package contains
2 pounds of scales and is worth 15 GP.
Lief is hiding these basilisk scales, stolen from an import ship that originated from Waterdeep, for a high-ranking human member
of the Guild, Jhera Gothill (Medium, Neutral Evil Assassin). Jhera is a regular at the first-floor tavern, where the stern woman meets
with unscrupulous sea captains.
R13: Hidea way
This area serves as a hideout for individuals who need a place to lay low while avoiding enemies or the authorities. No one is
staying here now; the bedclothes are left from a previous tenant.This tiny room has a rumpled bedroll and pillows strewn across its wooden floor, which contains an opening to
the second floor below.

--- PAGE 67 ---

↑ Credits
Lead Designer: Amanda Hamon
Designers: Ron Lundeen, Stephen Rooney, Sarra Scherb
Rules Developers: Patrick Renie (lead), Makenzie De Armas, Ben Petrisor
Editors: Adrian Ng Di Spaltro (lead), Sadie Lowry, F. Wesley Schneider, Hans Ziegler
Art Director: Josh Herman
Graphic Designers: Trystan Falcone (lead), Matt Cole
Cover Illustrator: Magali Villeneuve
Interior Illustrators: David Astruga, Luca Bancone, Clint Cearley, Andrea Piparo, Bram Sels, Cynthia Sheppard, John Tedrick
Cartographer: Mike Schley
Consultants: Sameer Joseph, Alyssa Visscher
Producers: Rob Hawkey (lead), Dan Tovar (lead), Bill Benham, Siera Bruggeman, Vanessa Hoskins
ARTIST: MAGALI VILLENEUVE


--- PAGE 68 ---

FRONT COVER
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, Forgotten Realms, Player’s Handbook,
Monster Manual, Dungeon Master’s Guide, all other Wizards of the Coast product names, their respective logos,
and The World’s Greatest Roleplaying Game are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the USA and other
countries. All characters and their distinctive likenesses are property of Wizards of the Coast. This material is
protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the
material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast.
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC, PO Box 707, Renton, WA 98057-0707, USA. Manufactured by: Hasbro SA, Rue
Emile-Boéchat 31, 2800 Delémont. CH.