
--- PAGE 1 ---

Netheril’s Fall: Tales of Terror,
Treasure, and Time Travel for
Dungeons and Dragons Fifth
Edition
,
Printed by Eyenarr
Printed with the BeyondPrinting-Chrome-Extension

--- PAGE 3 ---

INTRODUCTION : W ITN ESS  N ETHERIL ’ S  D OOM
Using This Supplement
Ensuring Fun for All
The Empire’s Rise and Fall
Peak Magical Excess
A Disgruntled Underclass
A Subterranean Threat
Folly Before the Fall
Netheril Returned
An Empire Divided
High Netheril
Low Netheril
Netheril at its Height
CHAPTER  1: A DVENTUR ING  IN  N ETHERIL
Adventuring in the Past
Abundant Magic
Fashion and Aesthetics
Language
Presence of Time Travelers
Netherese Sensibilities
Eileanar
Eileanar Overview
Eileanar Districts
Eileanar Locations
Conch
Conch Overview
City Sections
Conch Locations
CHAPTER  2: N ETHERESE  M AGICAL  A NOMALIES
Environmental Effects
Communal Telepathy Zone
Dampened Magic Zone
Eerie Chanting Zone
Empowered Force Zone
Low Gravity Zone
Unstable Gravity Zone
Magical Hazards
Example Magical Hazards
CHAPTER  3: T HROUGH  THE  T IME  G ATES
About Time Gates
Relative Time Gates
Other Time Gates
Time Gates’ Environments
Fool’s Needle
The Needle’s Ascent
The Needle’s Summit
Into Eileanar
Adventure at Fool’s Needle
A Point of Pride

--- PAGE 4 ---

The Forgotten Chamber
The Road of Gems
The Caldera
Into Conch
Adventure at the Forgotten Chamber
The Missing Gnome
CHAPTER  4: E SCAPE  F ROM  THE  P AST
Time-Travel Adventures
Attack of the Phaerimm
Chaos in the Streets
The Doomed Apotheosis
APPENDIX  A: M AGIC  I TEMS
Arcane Battery
Brooch of the Elements
Fork of Eddy Summoning
Hat of Vortexes
Magen Handbell
Mask of Changed Appearance
Mythallar Bracelet
Mythallar Cloak
APPENDIX  B: B ESTIAR Y
Eldritch Eddy
Magen
Caldron Magen
Terran Magen
Virvos Magen
Phaerimm
Phaerimm Hatchling
Phaerimm Scout
Phaerimm Agent
Phaerimm Elder
CREDITS

--- PAGE 5 ---

INTRODUCTIONINTRODUCTION


--- PAGE 6 ---

↑ Witness Netheril’s Doom

--- PAGE 7 ---

ARTIST: ÁLVARO CALVO ESCUDERO

--- PAGE 9 ---

Lost to the annals of time is an empire of magical decadence and societal decay like no other: Netheril. Two thousand years ago,
Netheril cowed Faerûn with its flying cities, archmages of unrivaled power, and mighty magical wonders. When Netheril fell,
Faerûn’s fabric shuddered. A huge swath of land shriveled into the Anauroch desert.
Yet echoes of ancient Netheril persist. Flying cities’ ruins dot Anauroch and the surrounding lands, tantalizing adventurers who
dare face untold horrors for the promise of wealth and magic. Scholars and mages alike seek Netherese knowledge, whether to
illuminate history or gain a fragment of Netheril’s spellcasters’ power.
Ancient Netherese mages’ wild experimentations with temporal magic warped the fabric of the time stream, making adventuring in
the fallen empire possible. Hidden in the present day are time gates that lead to ancient Netheril and facilitate these adventures.
Additionally, unfettered experimentation with Netherese magic in the past or present occasionally shunts present-day heroes into
ancient Netheril.
Adventures set in the past might allow characters to become storied heroes of antiquity. In ancient Netheril, the opportunities for
adventure are vast and terrifying, from arcane squalls running amok to violent villains who siphon Netheril’s magic. The rewards
for adventuring in Netheril are as fantastical as the magical empire itself.
RESIDENTS OF A LOW NETHERESE SETTLEMENT GAZE UPON THE SPECTACULAR SIGHT OF A FLYING CITY

--- PAGE 10 ---

↑ USING  T HIS  S UPPLEMENT
This supplement includes the tools you need to play Dungeons & Dragons adventures set in ancient Netheril, a long-fallen empire
in the Forgotten Realms. Monster stat blocks referenced appear in the Monster Manual or appendix B.
This introduction gives an overview of ancient Netheril and its history. Although this introduction is suitable for all players’ eyes,
the remainder of this supplement is intended for Dungeon Masters only.
The following is included:
Chapter 1 provides information about adventuring in ancient Netheril, including details about the flying city of Eileanar and the port
city of Conch. Maps and tools for adventures set in these cities are also included.
Chapter 2 explains environmental effects and hazards common in ancient Netheril due to magic’s overuse and exploitation.
Chapter 3 details present-day time gates where characters can time travel to ancient Netheril, along with maps and adventures set
near these gates.
Chapter 4 provides maps and adventures set in ancient Netheril.
Appendix A includes Netherese magic items characters might acquire during their adventures.
Appendix B provides a bestiary of creatures found in ancient Netheril.
ENSURING  F UN  FOR  A LL
This supplement deals with themes that some might find sensitive or uncomfortable. Before you incorporate this supplement into
your game, read its contents carefully, review the “Ensuring Fun for All” section in the Dungeon Master’s Guide, and be sure to have
a conversation with your players as described in the “Hard and Soft Limits” section.

--- PAGE 11 ---

↑ THE E MPIRE ’ S  R ISE  AND  F ALL
Five thousand years ago, the people (mostly humans) who lived in a collection of small fishing villages called the Alliance of
Seventon struck an alliance with the elven kingdom of Eaerlann. The Eaerlanni elves taught the humans about magic. Following
this advancement, the alliance renamed itself Netheril, after King Nether the Elder, and all citizens learned the basics of
rudimentary spellcasting.
Three hundred years later, the Netherese discovered a collection of ancient writings on precious metals that contained vast bodies
of magical knowledge. Using these lengthy documents, which came to be known as the Nether Scrolls, Netherese arcanists
learned how to wield magic exponentially more powerful than anything they’d cast before. After centuries of magical progress and
imperial expansion, the Netherese who mastered the power of the Nether Scrolls became the ruling class.
Netherese magical might dominated Faerûn for more than 2,500 years. During Netheril’s Shadowed Age, though, several factors
led to the empire’s fall.
PEAK  M AGICAL  E XCESS
At the empire’s height, Netheril’s most powerful mages lived in great flying cities powered by magical orbs known as mythallars, a
type of mythal, which are sources of great magical power. Forever hungry for deeper magical understanding, the mages conducted
wild magical experimentations from their aerial abodes. By the time the Shadowed Age arrived, these experimentations had
dangerously taxed the fabric of the Weave, the tapestry of raw magic that flows through the world. Magical mishaps began to
compound, and flying cities eventually began to fall from the sky.
A D ISGRUNTLED  U NDERCLASS
Meanwhile, a servant underclass had developed among those on the ground who lacked the wealth or ability to devote themselves
to magical study. Peasants eked out livings in the meager employment of wealthy mages who owned the land and controlled the
economy. These peasants seethed at Netheril’s inequity, while the ruling class’s hubris and thirst for power kept the mages
oblivious to the peasants’ anger.
A S UBTERRANEAN  T HREAT
During the Shadowed Age, as the Netherese’s overuse of magic began to affect the Weave, an outside threat against Netheril
emerged. Deep underground, where the Anauroch desert stretches today, lived magic-obsessed creatures called phaerimm. The
Netherese’s weakening of the Weave also weakened the phaerimm, even limiting their lifespans, and the phaerimm hated the
empire as a result.
Using their abilities to siphon magic from the Weave, the phaerimm began to assault the mighty empire above. The phaerimm’s
magic caused the fall of some flying cities. Additionally, groups of phaerimm began strategically striking aboveground targets.
These operations were so devastating that few victims survived. The Netherese became terrified of the phaerimm. The phaerimm’s
magic led to Anauroch’s desertification, further contributing to the underclass’s unrest.
The phaerimm, once they’d dispatched Netheril, planned to build their own empire built on suffering and dominance over all who
weren’t their own. The phaerimm’s assaults on Netheril chipped away at the empire’s already crumbling facade, and the Netherese
mages became desperate.
FOLLY  B EFORE  THE  F ALL
In –339 DR, Netheril’s most powerful mage, the dangerously brilliant Karsus, attempted to neutralize the phaerimm threat by
casting a spell of unparalleled power to replace Mystryl, the god of magic, with himself. Karsus believed having absolute control
over the Weave would allow him to save his people, though in his hubris, he also coveted the powers of a god. While Karsus cast
his spell, the Weave surged and fluctuated.
Mystryl, the only one who could mitigate the damage dealt to the Weave, countered Karsus during the spell’s casting by sacrificing
herself and tearing the Weave asunder. This caused Karsus to die as well. For a time, magic vanished from the world, until the god

--- PAGE 12 ---

of magic returned as Mystra.
Without magic to keep them aloft, the remaining flying cities of Netheril crashed to the ground, though the flying city of Thultanthar
managed to escape to the Shadowfell. Many mages died with Mystryl’s sacrifice, while others suffered shattered minds. Once
magic eventually returned, Netherese mages could no longer cast their mightiest spells as they had before. The Netherese empire
began to crumble. Eventually, the land that once boasted the world’s most powerful empire became a barren desert, the life and
magic stripped from it thanks to the phaerimm’s siphoning powers.
NETHERIL  R ETUR NED
In 1372 DR, the flying city of Thultanthar, also called the City of Shade, emerged from the Shadowfell, where it had lain hidden for
centuries. The city’s rulers, calling themselves Shadovar, began rebuilding the long-lost Netherese empire, even returning life and
growth to the desert. They dubbed this reborn empire the Empire of Shade. Thultanthar crashed to the ground in 1487 DR, landing
in Myth Drannor in the Heartlands, and the Shadovar empire fell with it. But survivors of that catastrophe work to re-create the
fallen city, where elements of the ancient empire, now twisted by the Shadowfell’s influence, still persist.

--- PAGE 13 ---

↑ AN E MPIRE  D IVIDED
For most of its existence, Netheril was an empire split in two parts: High Netheril and Low Netheril.
HIGH  N ETHERIL
High Netheril was the society of mages that dominated Netheril. High Netherese families were headed by powerful mages, though
not every family member was proficient with magic. High Netherese ensured their descendants were elevated with wealth,
education, and privilege above the laboring class, though High Netherese who couldn’t use magic could never achieve true political
or economic power.
DECADENT  W EALTH
High Netherese hoarded the empire’s wealth, jealously guarding their gains and fighting among themselves to claim more. Most
High Netherese lived in flying cities, but some built enclaves in similarly dramatic locations protected by magic, such as atop
waterfalls, in caverns, on isolated mountain peaks, or in calderas of volcanoes.
MAGIC  D EPENDENCE
High Netherese regarded those who didn’t use magic as undisciplined children in need of guidance, yet the mages were made
helpless by their own surfeit of privilege. A typical High Netherese couldn’t sew a button, sharpen a sword, or start a fire without
magic. Some couldn’t write or read altogether, relying on enchanted quills and speaking parchment instead.
SOCIETY
High Netherese society was full of beautiful people gilded with glamour, all concealing their true faces, forms, and agendas via
magic. The life of a High Netherese mage was one of politics, danger, hedonism, and fierce competition.
Most High Netherese aimed to create or curate outrageous magical inventions that flaunted their ingenuity and avant-garde tastes.
Even government officials and military officers favored dramatic, decadent magic over direct solutions.
LOW N ETHERIL
Low Netheril was the working class, which served the aristocratic mages who held all of the empire’s wealth and power.
A L IFE  OF  H ARDSHIP
Low Netherese lived in poverty and extreme taxation. Most Low Netherese farmed, fished, mined, or otherwise worked to serve
and supply the mages. Low Netherese almost never owned their homes or lands, instead laboring to pay the ever-increasing costs
imposed by their mage overlords. Lest the workers organize rebellion, High Netherese mages occasionally conducted raids,
descending from the sky unexpectedly to make an example of dissidents.
FAMILY  AND  M AGIC
Out of sight of the mages, Low Netherese honored complex and rich customs marked by a profound storytelling tradition and
unbreakable family bonds. Tattoos kept records of every parent, spouse, and child in a family.

--- PAGE 14 ---

↑ NETHERIL  AT  ITS  H EIGHT
ARTIST: ADAM COOK


--- PAGE 16 ---

Map: Netheril At Its Height shows Netheril during its Golden Age. Flying cities soared high above the ground and are marked on
the map in relation to other features in the region.MAP: NETHERIL AT ITS HEIGHT


--- PAGE 17 ---

CHAPTER 1CHAPTER 1


--- PAGE 18 ---

↑ Adventuring in Netheril

--- PAGE 19 ---

ARTIST: LUCA BANCONE

--- PAGE 21 ---

To adventure in ancient Netheril is to walk into an empire of boundless magic and tyrannical cruelty. Netheril is a unique magical
society, existing in a different era of the Forgotten Realms. Should your adventures take place just before Netheril’s fall, your
players will experience the Forgotten Realms’ most arrogant civilization moments before its spectacular end.
This chapter provides guidance on setting your game in Netheril and details two ancient Netherese cities: Eileanar, a flying city of
magical opulence, and Conch, where the conflicts between High and Low Netheril are on full display.
FLYING CITIES ARE THE BREATHTAKING PINNACLE OF NETHERESE MAGIC AND EXCESS

--- PAGE 22 ---

↑ ADVENTURING  IN  THE  P AST
The moment they step into ancient Netheril, characters from the present day should notice the trappings of a different time.
ABUNDANT  M AGIC
Magic is everywhere in Netheril, with constant spellcasting, abundant magical effects, and magic items a common part of
everyday life. Everywhere characters go, they see evidence of this rampant magic use. Mages might fly about the streets;
household objects might be animated, busily handling chores; and public art might be suspended in the air, capturing the
intersection of beauty and magic.
The expression of magic varies widely depending on where characters roam in ancient Netheril. In a flying city, magic is on
opulent, wanton display. On the ground, magic is still everywhere, but it’s clear only High Netherese mages wield and benefit from
it.
NETHERESE  P ETS
Netherese mages use magic to create fantastical pets, which are in abundance throughout the empire. Strange, chimeric pets are
common, such as winged hares, venomous baboons, or feathered mastiffs. Sometimes these pets find their way to Low Netherese
households, though whether their High Netherese creators bother to retrieve them is down to the individual mage.
FASHION  AND  A ESTHETICS
Both High and Low Netherese individuals favor loose, flowing attire such as togas, robes, cloaks, and sashes. They often adorn
their heads with shawls, headbands, veils, or wreaths.
HIGH  N ETHERESE  F ASHION
Members of the upper class tend to flaunt their wealth and dress to impress. High Netherese drape themselves in silk, satin, or
linen, all in bright, rich colors. They accessorize with extravagant fur, feathers, and expensive leather. Their jewelry often
incorporates magic, with circlets, rings, necklaces, and fastenings sporting heatless flames, unmelting ice, or pure light.
LOW N ETHERESE  F ASHION
Low Netherese individuals typically wear rough, homespun tunics; heavy woolen cloaks; and thick rope sandals or cloth boots.
Their fabrics are rarely dyed, though when they are, earth tones dominate. Adornments such as earrings, pendants, armbands, and
belts are typically made of knotted rope or carved from wood or stone.
LANGUAGE
The common language in Netheril is Netherese, which appears on the Standard Languages of Faerûn table in Forgotten Realms:
Heroes of Faerûn


--- PAGE 23 ---

PRESENCE  OF  T IME  T RAVELERS
Should the characters be revealed as time travelers, Netherese might be less surprised than the characters assume. Magical travel
of all kinds is pervasive among Netheril’s mages, so most Netherese would accept time travel as another form of magical
experimentation. Reactions are likely to range from polite interest or intellectual curiosity among High Netherese to grudging
acceptance or wary suspicion among Low Netherese.
The dangers of the characters being discovered as time travelers depend on the reaction of greedy Netherese mages, who might
want to take control of time travel for their own purposes. Alternatively, a desperate Low Netherese servant might want to steal the
characters’ means of travel to escape from servitude or coming disaster.

--- PAGE 24 ---

↑ NETHERESE  S ENSIBILITIES
The Netherese people, whether they’re mages or not, tend to share similar cultural viewpoints. Understanding these views can help
you roleplay Netherese NPCs.
Netherese individuals typically express the following common assumptions:
Brutal Outlook. Violence is normal and part of everyday life.
Quick Fixes. Magic is the solution to every problem.
Spellcasters’ Privilege. Magic-users will always be privileged in society, while those who don’t use magic will always be at a
disadvantage.
Stratified Society. Low Netherese have harder lives than High Netherese.
Superiority Complex. Netheril is the apex of civilization, and its fall would be the end of history.

--- PAGE 25 ---

↑ EILEANAR
MAP: EILEANAR(DM-VERSION ABOVE, PLAYER-VERSION BELOW)ARTIST: MIKE SCHLEY


--- PAGE 26 ---

Eileanar, also known as Karsus’s Enclave or simply Karsus (after its founder and ruler), was a flying city and the crown jewel of
High Netherese learning, culture, and magic. The following sections assume the characters visit Eileanar near the end of Netheril’s
Shadowed Age, though you should adjust descriptions as necessary if the characters visit the city earlier.
EILEANAR  O VERVIEW
Eileanar is ruled with absolute authority by Karsus, one of the most powerful mages in Netherese history. Karsus established
Eileanar near the beginning of the Shadowed Age, and at first the mage was an attentive ruler. However, near the age’s end, Karsus


--- PAGE 27 ---

became increasingly absent from governance. The mage spent weeks at a time locked in his sanctum while pursuing the creation
of a spell to grant himself the power of a deity. Karsus was convinced that, with this spell, he would save Netheril. While Karsus
pursued his obsession, law and order deteriorated across the city.
TWO  M YTHALLARS
Two mythallars are placed in Karsus’s Arcane Acropolis in the Grand Jewel district. These mythallars, which are crystalline orbs
that are 150 feet in diameter, keep the city airborne and fuel its magical luxuries.
CITY  G OVERNMENT
Though the word of Karsus is the final law in all matters, Arcanist Andoris Derathar (Medium, Lawful Neutral Mage) has
implemented her own brand of justice during Karsus’s preoccupation. Derathar is a human who commands the city’s watch and
favors violence and hasty tribunals. Troublemakers who avoid on-the-spot execution are sentenced to combat in the Coliseum of
Karsus, labor in the Hidden Quarter district, or hard labor in the mines of Conch. (See later in this chapter for details on these
locations.)
TRANSPORTATION
Magical conveyance is the norm in Eileanar. Within the city, Tenser’s Floating Disk spells and flying steeds are commonplace, as
are enchanted chariots and walkways that gleam with magical light.
NEWS  AND  E NTERTAINMENT
Eileanar is famous for the speed at which information travels, passing through society’s grand manors, magically projected
proclamations in public plazas, and the whispers of Low Netherese servants. Scandal is one of Eileanar’s favorite forms of
entertainment. Another is watching outrageous clashes at the Coliseum of Karsus, where pure spectacle delights even the most
jaded mages.
SUPPLY  AND  D EMAND
Every day, food and goods are magically transported from Low Netheril into Eileanar’s Hidden Quarter district, where servants
prepare and transport the items to the homes, institutions, and businesses of the upper class. At dusk, any waste is disposed of by
magic or, more commonly, dumped off the flying city, to the dismay of those below.
EDUCATION
Eileanar boasts several of the greatest schools in all the empire, including the Last Academies in the Inner Ring district (detailed in
“Eileanar Locations”).
RELIGION
Scattered shrines dot Eileanar. The Netherese pay grudging respect to a few members of the Faerûnian pantheon, though they
know some gods by different names. The Netherese commonly worship Amaunator, god of the sun; Chauntea (known as Jannath),
god of agriculture; Talos (known as Kozah), god of storms; Mystra (called Mystryl in her previous incarnation), god of magic;
Selûne, god of the moon; Shar, god of darkness and loss; and the god of fortune the Netherese know as Tyche, who eventually split
into the gods known in the present day as Beshaba, god of misfortune, and Tymora, god of good fortune.
Priests and holy folk aren’t respected in this enclave, and they’re typically called upon only on certain ritual days for propriety’s
sake.
EILEANAR  D ISTRICTS
Eileanar is built on the inverted underside of a sheared-off mountain peak. It is divided into five districts.
Brief descriptions of Eileanar’s districts are as follows:
Grand Jewel. The Grand Jewel is Karsus’s seat of power, from which his Arcane Acropolis shines with magical light.
Inner Ring. The Inner Ring is the university district of Eileanar, as well as the location of its grandest parks, palaces, and plazas.
Outer Platform. The Outer Platform is devoted to dwellings, commerce, and the raucous Coliseum of Karsus. It is surrounded by a
wall of magical force that protects those who venture too close to Eileanar’s edge.

--- PAGE 28 ---

Hidden Quarter. Visually obscured by tunnels and illusions, the Hidden Quarter is the dismal dwelling place and industrial center
for Low Netherese servants.
Underpeak. Gravity inversions allow mages to construct upside-down palaces on the surface of the rock below the city. However,
the Underpeak’s cave systems are home to monsters as well as escaped magical experimentations.
EILEANAR  L OCATIONS
The locations detailed here are among some of Eileanar’s most famous landmarks. Use these locations when setting adventures
in the city.
Eileanar is shown on Map: Eileanar.
ARCANE  A CROPOLIS
The Arcane Acropolis is Karsus’s home, sanctum, and ruling palace. It is designed to awe and intimidate, to showcase his mastery
of magic and serve his every whim as he develops ever more powerful spells.
At any given time, several human Mages, Mage Apprentices, and even Archmages (second in power to Karsus, of course) of all
alignments can be found within the Acropolis’s white marble walls. Inhabitants also include various magen (see appendix B) and
summoned monsters, including Elementals and Celestials.
In the acropolis, gravity and time are shaped at Karsus’s pleasure. Various areas have altered gravity or no gravity, as well as
places where time is slowed or sped up. A gallery of levitating statues portrays the empire’s greatest minds, with the floating
image of Karsus largest and foremost of all. In the center of the acropolis stands Karsus’s Sanctum, a pillared pavilion that looks
out over the city.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the acropolis for one of the following reasons:
Karsus. Adventurers might ask Karsus to cast impossible spells or bestow supernatural gifts, request that he intervene in some
matter of law in the city, or seek to stop him from bringing down the empire through his obsessive hubris. Gaining an audience
with the powerful mage is an adventure in its own right.
Two Mythallars. The acropolis has two mythallars: one in a lower housing, which is used to empower the city’s magic, and another
just outside Karsus’s sanctum, which keeps the city aloft. Adventurers might seek to harness the power of—or destroy—either
mythallar.
C KThe white marble of this acropolis glitters with an outline of magical force. Atop the acropolis, an enormous orb
made of crystal shines with a powerful, pale light that rivals the sun.


--- PAGE 29 ---

COLISEUM  OF  K ARSUS
Surrounded by market tents and drinking halls on the Outer Platform, the Coliseum of Karsus is the hub of entertainment in
Eileanar. Here, droves of High Netherese can exchange a half-dozen coins for alcohol, a hot meal, and a seat from which to
witness violent battles to the death. High Pitmaster Alaina Ioum (Medium, Lawful Neutral Mage), a stern elf, oversees the
coliseum’s operations and approves all combatants bound for the arena. The pitmaster is constantly seeking new and creative
contest rules for the coliseum battles, and she often awards prizes to those whose ideas net the most spectators.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the Coliseum of Karsus for one of the following reasons:
Combat and Spectacle. Adventurers might come to witness or partake in the battles staged here, which often reenact elements of
Netherese history or mythology and always involve heavy amounts of showy magic. Additionally, the coliseum is where public
executions take place, which adventurers might need to witness, prevent, or escape from.
Information Source. Due to its widespread popularity, the coliseum is an easy place for an adventurer to bring a mark, a contact, or
an enemy they can’t corner anywhere else. It’s the perfect place to buy a few secrets to go with your beer and fresh-roasted roc
skewers.
Tunnel Access. The size of the coliseum and its extensive underground service tunnels make it a perfect place to slip unnoticed
into the Hidden Quarter district or older tunnels that lead to the Underpeak.
C F
BRUTAL COMPETITIONS PLAY OUT TO SCREAMING, BLOODTHIRSTY CROWDS AT THE COLISEUM OF KARSUSARTIST: LUCA BANCONE
This circular structure of black stone is open to the sky. By day, it resounds with throaty cheers, agonized wails,
and the sounds of a bloodthirsty throng stamping and roaring in unison while watching spectacular combat.

--- PAGE 30 ---

COURT  OF  F OUNTAINS
One of the city’s rare places meant solely for rest and reflection, the Court of Fountains is also Eileanar’s most beautiful locale. The
elf Aurivyl (Medium, Neutral Good Archpriest), a descendant of the Eaerlanni elves who taught the Netherese magic, is in charge
here. Aurivyl ministers to the spiritual needs of all who enter the court. Wise and measured, she is the sole respected practitioner
of divine magic in Eileanar and is in high demand for her wisdom, her healing magic, and her insight into the ways of the gods.
Aurivyl worships Mystryl, god of magic, though followers of any or no god are welcome here.
Consulting with Aurivyl is free, but the court’s other accommodations are expensive. The court is renowned for its graceful
accommodations, healing pools of magical water, elegant dining rooms, tasteful salons, and striking gardens. Paths and bridges
spiral and swirl everywhere. Some groves have no gravity, and visitors are encouraged to float among the beauty and reflect upon
their lives.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the Court of Fountains for one of the following reasons:
Divine Magic. Aurivyl’s skill with divine magic is famous. Adventurers in need of healing, resurrection, or guidance in the ways of
the gods would do well to seek her out.
Entertainment. For adventurers seeking the fine life, the court offers the most elevated performances, the most elegant dances,
and stunningly romantic gardens.
Place to Stay. There is no finer lodging in all Netheril than the court, and its astronomical prices reflect its grandeur and
sophistication. A single room costs 10 PP per night; a suite that sleeps five people costs 40 PP per night. Aurivyl is willing to barter
in exchange for lodging, although the cost is usually steep.
LAST  A CADEMIES
The Last Academies, a collection of rival institutions, are named as such because once you finish here, there’s nowhere else to
learn. Each institution claims to be second to none. All the institutions are linked via permanent magical portals, which in turn link
to other facilities on other flying cities.
Six famed institutions claim primacy here: the Academy of Mentalist Study, the Alchemical Seminary, the House of Ancient Scrolls,
the Library of Netheril, the Shadow Consortium, and the University of Definitive Archwizardry. The head of top-level administration
of the Last Academies is Karyne Xalroum (Medium, Lawful Neutral Archmage), a no-nonsense human who often delegates her
duties to a host of human Mages of all alignments.
Despite their intellectual offerings, the Last Academies are dangerous places full of unstable magic and unchecked egos. Here,
wild experiments cause frequent chaos and destruction, covered up by administrations that know no higher calling than pure
knowledge and academic glory.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the Last Academies for one of the following reasons:Situated in an enchanted grove, this marble-and-quartz palace of elven design rises gracefully toward the sky,
encircled by music and glimmering light.
Colorful peaks, spires, domes, and arches jostle for position and superiority in this district devoted to higher
learning.

--- PAGE 31 ---

Magical Training. Any adventurer seeking magical knowledge or training would do well to start at the Last Academies, although
admittance requires a rigorous test of magical prowess that often proves deadly.
Research. The Library of Netheril is one of the greatest repositories of spellbooks, magic scrolls, and tomes of lore in all the
empire.
Shadow Consortium. The most infamous institution in the Inner Ring, the Shadow Consortium is cloaked in mystery. Forbidden
planar knowledge and even the secrets of lichdom are explored here.
MYTHOMIAN  W AREHOUSE
Kept magically cold, the Mythomian Warehouse in the Hidden Quarter is Eileanar’s main clearing house for incoming goods and
supplies. Fresh produce and frozen meats are kept here, as well as luxuries and spell materials best preserved in the cold. Low
Netherese human Commoners and summoned Ice Mephits move frozen goods, while trained Winter Wolves patrol the grounds
against would-be thieves and intruders.
Despite the warehouse’s outward organization, rebellion simmers here. A human named Edrion Volaris (Medium, Chaotic Good
Spy) is the High Netherese warehouse owner. Secretly, under the alias Liberax Volt, he is also the leader of the Free Warriors, an
underground network dedicated to overthrowing the corrupt magocracy. Passionate and intelligent, Volaris hates the corruption
that pervades the city. Volaris believes High Netherese treat Low Netherese abominably. From the warehouse, Volaris orchestrates
strike missions to remove the wickedest mages from power and help the oppressed.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the warehouse for one of the following reasons:
Free Warriors. Adventurers who are investigating the Free Warriors, or who wish to join its cause, can seek out Liberax Volt. If they
prove their trustworthiness, the rebellion leader reveals himself. He might assign the characters tasks such as sabotaging
powerful mages or freeing prisoners and captives.
Frozen Goods. Secret chambers in the center of the warehouse contain precious eggs of icy monsters, forbidden substances, and
even magic items best kept on ice. Adventurers might seek to plunder the frozen goods, claiming what they can before they are
detected or succumb to frostbite.
Ice Plane Portals. The icy portals conjured by mages are frigid cracks in reality leading to the Plane of Ice, Stygia (the frozen fifth
layer of the Nine Hells), Limbo, and other distant planes. Adventurers might be asked to deal with monsters who crawl through
these portals, or they might use these openings as entrances into places where mortals rarely tread.
WATCH  P RESIDIUM
The Watch Presidium has three identical branches from which the city’s watch operates. Each branch includes several human
Guards and Mages of various alignments who use permanent magical portals to move seamlessly between all three locations.This massive, blocky warehouse dominates the skyline. Frosty mist curls around the doors and windows, and
servants bustle back and forth in cold-weather gear.
Rising against the skyline is a windowless, domed fortress made of iron. It stands dour among buildings that
shine with magical lights.

--- PAGE 32 ---

The branches are under the purview of Arcanist Andoris Derathar (see “Eileanar Overview”), who presides over law enforcement.
The Presidium has only a few prison cells, primarily for temporarily holding the accused before they are sentenced to labor or sent
to fight at the Coliseum.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the Watch Presidium for one of the following reasons:
Appeal to Authority. Arcanist Derathar is usually found at one of the watch’s branches, allocating resources or governing tribunals.
Adventurers looking to sway the city’s legal authority might approach Derathar, but they would do well to be cautious of her
famously short temper and long memory.
Bounties. The watch posts hefty bounties for those who escape its grasp. Adventurers looking to earn coin or seek out fellow
rebels might check the information posted to the watch’s bounty boards.
Crime and Punishment. Adventurers who commit crimes or become entangled with resisting the ruling mages might find
themselves interacting with the Watch Presidium.
WAY OF  A STONISHMENTS
Curving along the Outer Platform, the Way of Astonishments is closed to traffic, allowing patrons to freely wander and peruse the
staggering array of magical shops and businesses here competing for attention and coin. High Netherese often bring their Caldron
Magen (see appendix B) bodyguards to this busy area, since pickpocketing is rife.
Businesses include the following:
Dundaden’s Arcane Smithy, for armor made more of magic than metal
The Forge of Fargate, for magical transportation that leads anywhere one wishes
Ioulaum Industries, for schematics and rare magical materials
QM III, for magic items curated by the famous human Parzal the Outrageous (Medium, Lawful Neutral Archmage)
Rualadeen, for enchanted weapons
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the Way of Astonishments for one of the following reasons:
Buying and Selling Magic Items. The shops here sell magic items from Common to Very Rare. Some shops also sell Legendary
magic items, at your discretion.
Concealment. The way’s noise, crowds, abundant illusions, and chaotic displays make it the perfect place to give pursuers the slip.
Adventurers might evade capture amid the hubbub or be led here by those they’re chasing.
Investigation. Adventurers might be hired to investigate a crime perpetrated at one of the shops or investigate a shop’s sabotage
at the hands of a competitor.Magical shops line both sides of this grand avenue, each storefront a glimmering treasure box of sensory
delight.

--- PAGE 33 ---

↑ CONCH
MAP: CONCH(DM-VERSION ABOVE, PLAYER-VERSION BELOW)ARTIST: MIKE SCHLEY


--- PAGE 34 ---

Built along the river that shares its name, Conch was originally a quiet backwater in Low Netheril, where miners and trappers
supported the empire. But the mines became lucrative, the riverway attracted crime, and the ruling mages grew greedy. Life in
Conch can be difficult for the lower class, though it’s luxurious for the ruling mages.
The following sections assume the characters visit Conch near the end of Netheril’s Shadowed Age; you should adjust
descriptions as necessary if the characters visit the city earlier.
CONCH  O VERVIEW
The dominant industry in Conch is mining. Conch’s mines are sprawling, dangerous, and worked by both locals and prisoners from
across the empire. Beyond the mines, Conch exists in a constant tug-of-war between the interests of the ruling mages and the
underhanded influence of river smugglers, who deal in all manner of illicit goods and are based in the city. Most residents do their
best to work their menial jobs, feed their families, and avoid the attention of anyone with power.
GOVERNMENT
The city is nominally ruled by the High Council of Conch, a rotating group of powerful mages. The council keeps tenuous order by
staying on the good side of river smugglers. Nenek Tril (Chaotic Evil Lizardfolk Sovereign), a powerful smuggler boss, has
murdered more than one council mage who has asked too many questions about goods that go missing along the river.
LOW N ETHERESE  L ABOR
While mages and smugglers jockey for control, Low Netherese work the land and water. These laborers serve as workers and
supervisors in the upper mines alongside criminals sentenced to hard labor, hunt and trap in the nearby Myconid Forest, and farm
the rocky soil and fish the Conch River. Come nightfall, Low Netherese gather to eat, drink, sing, and talk in their tight-knit
communities, enjoying a few short hours together before the sun rises again.
STONE  W ALLS
Conch huddles behind gray stone walls along the river. The massive walls are fortified with magical armaments.
U


--- PAGE 35 ---

UNREST
The uneasy balance of mages, Low Netherese laborers, and smuggling gangs has fended off threats to Conch’s survival for
decades. But recently, phaerimm attacks on the city’s outskirts have become concerning. Similarly, incidents of Low Netherese
resistance against the ruling mages have increased in recent years, with laborers demanding better pay and conditions in the
mines. So far, the mages have ignored the laborers.
CITY  S ECTIONS
Conch is built around the river, which flows eastward from the Columns of the Sky mountains. It is surrounded by heavy
fortifications and divided into three main sections.
Brief descriptions of Conch’s sections are presented below:
High Netherese Enclave. A tiny spike of land at the western edge of town is home to the walled enclave where High Netherese
mages dwell. Music and sounds of carousing echo from these grand homes, their nighttime displays of magical light belying the
suffering elsewhere in the city.
Mines. The mines’ surface overlooks an open quarry latticed with dangerous scaffolding. Inside, laborers have little air and light.
Riverside. Most Low Netherese families live and work on the river to fish and move goods. Haphazard docks jut into the water, and
seedy pubs and warehouses line the banks.
CONCH  L OCATIONS
The locations detailed here are vital to everyday life in Conch. Use these locations when setting adventures in the city.
Conch is shown on Map: Conch
DOCKMARKET
The Dockmarket is Conch’s commercial hub. Crowded by waves of migrants fleeing the growing wasteland beyond the city, these
booths are full of people seeking work or offering goods and services.
Smugglers’ agents weave through the crowd picking pockets, making deals, and roughing up anyone who challenges them. Near
the center of the marketplace, a whitewashed wooden wall towers over the heads of the crowd. Citizens of Conch scrawl offers of
merchandise, requests for hired aid, and messages with hidden meanings across the wall. The talkative whitewasher Gemby Gray
(Lizardfolk Sovereign) is an invaluable source of information here, as those who leave messages on the wall often share more
context with the disarming woman, though it’s unclear where Gemby’s true loyalties lie.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the Dockmarket for one of the following reasons:
Commerce. There’s no better place to buy or sell nonmagical goods, information, or an adventurer’s skills than the Dockmarket.
Criminal Contacts. Adventurers looking to delve into Conch’s underworld might start here. Smugglers and ruffians walk in broad
daylight at the Dockmarket, throwing their weight around and only paying lip service to the mages’ authority.
River Travel. The Dockmarket is the departure point for boat travel up and down the river. Passage on a reputable ship can be
bought for 1 GP per person. Cheaper travel, for 1 SP per person, is available on most smugglers’ ships.
H N PStalls and booths made of brown, green, and gray oilcloth stretch over the cold, misty banks of the Conch River.
Vendors call out, hawking their wares.

--- PAGE 36 ---

HIGH  N ETHERESE  P ALACE
Tucked safely inside the High Netherese Enclave is the High Netherese Palace, a gilded, garish structure. The richest mages live in
this palace, while less-wealthy mages live in the enclave’s relatively paltry abodes.
High Netherese who dwell in the enclave are rarely seen in the city’s streets, leaving their enchanted complex only on winged
steeds or via teleportation. The mages consider it gauche to speak of the city’s other inhabitants. Particularly cruel toward the
lower class is the human aristocrat Velma Vatoum (Medium, Neutral Evil Archmage), niece of the Imperial Minehold’s governor.
Velma’s fabulous collection of jewelry is made from gems the governor steals from the mine. Velma is a willing participant in this
scheme and finds it all great fun.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the High Netherese Enclave for one of the following reasons:
Carousing. The mansion is filled with galleries, ballrooms, dining rooms, music halls, theaters, bars, and drawing rooms, each more
decadent and delightful than the last. Adventurers invited by resident mages might wish to carouse here—or use the parties as a
cover for committing underhanded deeds in the enclave.
Flying Steeds. The mansion’s paddocks house a variety of tamed and magically soothed flying steeds, including Griffons and
Pegasi. The paddocks are closely guarded, but adventurers could gain access with the mages’ blessing or through cunning and
guile.
Spellcasting. For the right price—or if it amuses them or serves their purposes—High Netherese mages here can cast spells on
behalf of travelers.
HOUSE  OF  W INE  AND  V INEGAR
The House of Wine and Vinegar is a hospital and drinking hall adjacent to Conch’s mines. Its proprietor, the human Low Netherese
witch Cyrleine-of-the-Pond (Medium, Neutral Good Archpriest), has dedicated the facility to the miners and makes it known that
mages are unwelcome here. Cyrleine worships Chauntea—known to the Netherese as Jannath, god of agriculture—though Cyrleine
welcomes anyone who dislikes the ruling mages’ authority.
Kind and dedicated, Cyrleine heals the injured with her Staff of Healing and ferments spiced wine that’s famous throughout the
city. She works closely with the friendly gnome Tacinbok (Small, Chaotic Good Commoner), a gifted inventor who wears a
prosthetic leg. Tacinbok is famous for making high-quality prosthetics, which she often gives to injured laborers.
The house’s barkeeps are married elves named Jorn and Sorfin Arborwend (Medium, Neutral Good Commoners), who are fabulous
storytellers. The men pass along traditional fables and tales of local history to the children of miners who congregate here,
encouraging the children to take pride in their Low Netherese families’ resilience and rich culture.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the House of Wine and Vinegar for one of the following reasons:A spiraled wall gleaming with colorful abjuration magic surrounds this marbled complex. Magical music wafts
from the enclave’s most magnificent home, while magical lights glitter here at night.
This sprawling structure, built haphazardly over centuries from quarry stones, looks like a ruin from the outside.
Its interior is bathed in lamplight and resonates with quiet music and hushed conversation.

--- PAGE 37 ---

Concealment. The House of Wine and Vinegar offers an ideal place to hide from angry mages, as no High Netherese are allowed
inside.
Healing. Cyrleine-of-the-Pond is Conch’s most famous healer. She can care for injured adventurers and even raise the dead,
although she won’t lift a finger to aid High Netherese or their causes.
Information Source. The house is a place where miners and other Low Netherese can speak freely, without fear of reprisal from
the mages. It’s an excellent place to seek unvarnished information.
IMPERIAL  M INEHOLD
The Imperial Minehold is the fortress for enforcers who uphold the mines’ harsh productivity quotas. The Minehold has a fortified
door and needle-thin windows to allow in trace amounts of light. Beyond its practical use, the Minehold is a show of strength,
authority, and the empire’s unyielding power.
The High Council of Conch meets in the Minehold, which overlooks the river and the city’s teeming quarries. The Minehold’s
governor is also a High Council member: Arcanist Heldreth Mavilen (Medium, Lawful Neutral Noble Prodigy), a cruel human who
has refused all recent requests from migrants for shelter in the Minehold’s cavernous interior. She insists that the space is needed
for ore refinement, though the mines’ production has dwindled since the recent troubles began. Secretly, the governor steals
choice gems from Conch’s mines and gifts them to her niece, Velma Vatoum, who then commissions and shows off grand jewelry
at high society balls in the High Netherese Enclave.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the Imperial Minehold for one of the following reasons:
Authority. Adventurers petitioning (or targeting) the High Council of Conch can find them in session in the Minehold’s upper
chambers, which feature slitted windows overlooking the mine, river, and Dockmarket.
Break In or Break Out. The Minehold is a prison and a storehouse of imperial wealth. Adventurers might seek to break into the
Minehold to loot or liberate. If the adventurers are captured, escaping from the Minehold might be their first step to freedom.
Permanent Magical Portals. The Minehold houses permanent magical portals that transport large quantities of ore and gems to
the industrial hubs of the flying cities. Adventurers wishing to travel to far-flung enclaves can disguise themselves as Low
Netherese to access these circles.
MINES
Conch’s mines produce stone, gems, and ore. Designed for productivity with no regard for miners, the mines punish wrongdoers
and remind laborers that the empire is mighty and unmerciful.
The mines have three levels. Outside, the cliff quarry is veined with rickety scaffolding built from wood and rope. Inside, the upper
mines are crowded and hot. Deeper still, tunnels and vents lead into the dangerous heart of the mines.A grim fortress magically carved from a single, massive peak of granite overlooks Conch’s mines: the Imperial
Minehold, a fortress of enforcers so tall that it nearly blots out the sun.
A teeming mass of laborers shuffles along a broken cliff on swaying scaffolds, chipping at the rock with poorly
maintained tools. Meanwhile, shouts of those toiling in deeper mines echo from deep, dark shafts.

--- PAGE 38 ---

The mines are worked by prisoners and poor Low Netherese, who might also be supervisors or captains. Some are cruel, while
others, like the human Grifud Romerus (Medium, Lawful Good Tough Boss), hope to provide relief to those under their command.
Grifud is known for small acts of kindness such as carrying food and drinks for the miners, granting occasional breaks, and
supporting the workers’ demands for better pay and conditions.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the mines for one of the following reasons:
Imprisonment. Adventurers who displease the mages might find themselves sentenced to hard labor in the mines. Alternatively,
they could voluntarily approach the mines in hopes of freeing someone from the same fate.
Mining. Adventurers might risk entering the mines in search of rare gems or minerals. Some High Netherese pay dearly for skilled
adventurers willing to raid the mines’ deeper levels and bring back the spoils.
Rumors of Monsters. The farthest tunnels contain horrors for which the miners have no name. Adventurers might be drawn to
tales of phaerimm (see appendix B), beholders, mind flayers, and other terrors of deep shadow in hopes of banishing such evils.
PUBLIC  B ATHS
The public baths were built in a bygone era when High Netheril hoped to deal justly with its subjects in Conch. But when the battle
lines between mages, laborers, and smugglers were drawn, this Riverside institution fell into disrepair and disrepute. High
Netherese no longer wished to spend money on an amenity for people they came to see as enemies. The baths now serve as
headquarters for Conch’s smuggling operations and are crawling with criminals.
ONCE BEAUTIFUL AND INVITING, CONCH’S PUBLIC BATHS ARE NOW A HOTBED OF CRIMEARTIST: LUCA BANCONE
The exterior of this once-grand Riverside structure features defaced statuary and shattered fountains. Crude
signs, reinforced by posted guards, read “Keep Out.”

--- PAGE 39 ---

Rooms of swirling steam fed by natural vents provide the perfect setting for smugglers to speak unobserved. Smuggler bosses
frequent the baths, though perhaps no one is as regular a visitor as the smuggler boss Nenek Tril (see “Government” above). Here,
Tril hears rumors of High Netherese causing problems for smuggling operations, and she arranges to have these mages
eliminated.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit the public baths for one of the following reasons:
Buying or Selling Smuggled Goods. The baths are adjacent to the river, and anything too valuable to be sold at the Dockmarket
winds up here, stored in a closed and drained bathing chamber until a proper buyer can be found.
Place to Stay. Those on the wrong side of the law can stay in dried-out steam rooms or bunks slung over sulfurous pools as long
as no one else has claimed the space.
Shady Dealings. Adventurers seeking to do business with criminals away from the eyes of the Watch Presidium will find plenty of
unscrupulous individuals lurking in and around the baths.
TRAPPER ’ S  S UPPLIES  AND  S TABLES
The stables and the nearby supply warehouse for forest-bound trappers are institutions. Here, adventuring gear and steeds can be
rented or purchased, provisioning all heading into the wilds outside the city.
The stables are low on horses at present; most have been cleared out to make room for refugees from the encroaching wasteland.
The establishment’s orc proprietor (Medium, Neutral Good Commoner) is known only as Father. Father rarely speaks, but the fact
that he opened up his yard and stables to migrants speaks volumes for his good heart and compassion for the needy.
Reasons to Visit. Adventurers might visit Trapper’s Supply and Stables for one of the following reasons:
Lodging and Supply. Father allows anyone to camp on his floors and yards, no questions asked and no payment required. The
simple goods and provisions available in the store are fairly priced and frequently restocked.
Rumors from the Wild. Adventurers might visit the supply to hear from trappers or migrants about their encounters in the
wilderness.This two-story, ramshackle outbuilding looks like it might collapse at any moment.

--- PAGE 40 ---

CHAPTER 2CHAPTER 2


--- PAGE 41 ---

↑Netherese Magical Anomalies

--- PAGE 42 ---

ARTIST: ALEJANDRO PACHECO

--- PAGE 44 ---

In ancient Netheril, rampant magical experimentation created unique environmental effects and magical hazards. At your
discretion, some of these effects might persist in your present-day campaign.
THE RAMPANT MAGICAL EXPERIMENTATION IN NETHERIL OFTEN CAUSED STRANGE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS

--- PAGE 45 ---

↑ ENVIRONMENTAL  E FFECTS
These magical environmental effects supplement the effects found in the Dungeon Master’s Guide.
COMMUNAL  T ELEPATHY  Z ONE
Places in Netheril where mages engage in intense magical study for prolonged periods sometimes result in an intellectual
hivemind where conceptual thought transcends language. These areas, known as communal telepathy zones, are typically no
more than 300 feet in diameter.
Creatures with an Intelligence score of 8+ in a communal telepathy zone gain telepathy with a range of 30 feet.
DAMPENED  M AGIC  Z ONE
Dampened magic zones arise where magic is failing or being absorbed by a powerful Artifact. This effect might ebb and flow
based on other natural or supernatural phenomena, such as at twilight or after magical weather.
In a dampened magic zone, which is typically no more than 300 feet in diameter, magical effects sputter feebly or appear
ephemeral. When a creature in the area casts a spell with a duration of 1 minute or longer, the spell’s duration is halved. Spell
attack rolls in the area are made with Disadvantage, and creatures have Advantage on saving throws against spells and other
magical effects.
EERIE  C HANTIN G  Z ONE
Regions where magical rituals with harmful effects habitually occur can resonate with disconcerting chanting, even after the
rituals are complete.
In an eerie chanting zone, which is typically no more than 300 feet in diameter, discordant chanting insinuates itself into the mind.
Creatures have Disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on Constitution saving throws to maintain Concentration.
EMPOWERED  F ORCE  Z ONE
Netherese mages often work magical energy into physical shapes such as unique jewelry, ostentatious decor, or even into
creatures such as magen (see appendix B). Areas where magic has been frequently refined, known as empowered force zones,
amplify raw magical energy and are typically no more than 300 feet in diameter.
When a creature in an empowered force zone rolls damage for a spell or attack that deals Force damage, it treats any 1 or 2 on a
damage die as a 3.
LOW G RAVITY  Z ONE
Many structures in Netheril’s flying cities defy gravity. The rampant Transmutation magic used to achieve these effects can go
haywire, resulting in a low gravity zone, which is typically no more than 300 feet in diameter.
In a low gravity zone, creatures quadruple the distance they can leap with a High Jump or a Long Jump, and the damage creatures
take from falling is halved (round down).
UNSTABLE  G RAVITY  Z ONE
Netherese mages often commanded gravity to bend to their will, but gravity isn’t so easily controlled. Overuse of gravity-altering
magic can cause it to oscillate unpredictably, creating an area of unstable gravity.
An area of unstable gravity is normally filled with debris from smashed objects that aren’t affixed to a surface. A creature near an
area of unstable gravity can identify its presence by noticing these smashed items, taking a Study action, and succeeding on a DC
15 Intelligence (Investigation) check.

--- PAGE 46 ---

The effect is the same as the Reverse Gravity spell (save DC 16), except that it is permanent and typically covers an area that is 60
feet in diameter and 60 feet high. Every 1d4 rounds, the effect is suppressed for 1d4 rounds and normal gravity returns, causing
creatures and objects to fall.

--- PAGE 47 ---

↑ MAGICAL  H AZARD S
These magical environmental effects supplement the effects found in the Dungeon Master’s Guide.
EXAMPLE  M AGICAL  H AZARDS
Hazards are presented in alphabetical order.
ARCANE  E FFLUENCE
Nuisance Hazard (Levels 1–4)
Spoiled potions, broken magic items, or runoff from magical workshops can pollute waterways, creating a sludge called arcane
effluence. While many Low Netherese individuals recognize the effluence’s peculiar violet sheen, careless High Netherese mages
usually don’t even know such pollution exists.
One patch of arcane effluence covers a 5-foot square, and creatures within 30 feet of it can smell its acrid, unnatural scent. A
creature that comes into contact with arcane effluence takes 3 (1d6) Acid damage. The creature takes the damage again at the
start of each of its turns until the effluence is scraped off (requiring an action) or destroyed.
The Dispel Magic spell or a similar effect destroys arcane effluence.
GLITTERMOSS
Deadly Hazard (Levels 5–10) or Nuisance Hazard (Levels 11–16)
Intense fields of unstable magic can produce a sparkling, multicolored moss called glittermoss. A patch of glittermoss covers a 5-
foot square. Glittermoss is often found near communal telepathy zones (see earlier in this chapter), though it doesn’t grow in
direct sunlight.
A creature that comes into contact with glittermoss makes a DC 12 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes
11 (2d10) Radiant damage and has the Blinded condition. While Blinded in this way, the creature is illuminated by glittering spores
and sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet. The creature repeats the save at the end of each
of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Glittermoss spores can leap to nearby creatures. While an affected creature is Blinded due to glittermoss, any creature that starts
its turn within the Bright Light the affected creature sheds makes a DC 12 Constitution saving throw, taking 11 (2d10) Radiant
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Any amount of Fire or Necrotic damage destroys a patch of glittermoss instantly.
SHADOWBARK
Nuisance Hazard (Levels 1–4)
Netheril’s flying cities cast huge shadows over the ground below, sometimes cutting off trees from the sunlight for weeks or
months. Due to the magic emanating from these flying cities, the trees below sometimes generate shadowbark: a purple-and-
black, moss-like coating that looks like a splotchy bruise.


--- PAGE 48 ---

Any creature that enters a space within 5 feet of shadowbark for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there makes a DC 12
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 5 (1d10) Necrotic damage and can’t regain Hit Points until the start
of its next turn. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage only.
Any amount of Radiant damage destroys shadowbark instantly.
At Higher Levels. Shadowbark can spread quickly in a forest, growing in strength. You can scale the hazard for higher levels by
increasing the Necrotic damage and save DC, as shown in the following table.
Levels Necrotic Damage Save DC
5–10 11 (2d10) 14
11–16 22 (4d10) 16
17–20 55 (10d10) 18
WILDSTORM
Nuisance Hazard (Levels 1–4)
Areas of unstable magic can spin into small, translucent tornadoes called wildstorms. A wildstorm fills a 10-foot Cube. It has a
Speed of 50 feet. Each round on Initiative count 0 (losing ties), a wildstorm moves toward the nearest creature and stops in its
space. A wildstorm dissipates after 1d4 minutes.
A creature that enters a wildstorm for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there is subjected to a random effect on the
Wildstorm Effects table.
Wildstorm Effects
1d20 Effect
1–2The wildstorm becomes momentarily incendiary around the creature. The creature takes 2 (1d4) Fire damage and is
burning.
3–6Shards of magical force whirl past the creature. The creature makes a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5 (1d10)
Force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
7–10The wildstorm momentarily manifests toxic vapors around the creature. The creature must succeed on a DC 12
Constitution saving throw or have the Poisoned condition for 1 minute. If the creature already has the Poisoned
condition, it instead takes 5 (2d4) Poison damage.
11–13The creature hears mental cacophony and makes a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw, taking 5 (1d10) Psychic damage on a
failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Whether the saving throw succeeds or fails, the creature
gains telepathy with a range of 10 feet for 1 minute.
14–17The storm renders the creature more susceptible to its other erratic effects. The creature has Vulnerability to Fire, Force,
Poison, and Psychic damage for 1 minute.
18–19 The creature’s skin hardens. The creature gains a +2 bonus to AC for 1 minute.
20 The creature has the Invisible condition for 1 minute.


--- PAGE 49 ---

WITCHBRIARS
Deadly Hazard (Levels 1–4) or Nuisance Hazard (Levels 5–10)
Some Low Netherese witches can enchant a patch of thorns to lash out at passersby. These enchanted thorn patches, called
witchbriars, are often meant to ensnare Netherese mages who mistreat their workers, though witchbriars don’t discriminate once
they’re animated. Witchbriars resemble an ordinary patch or hedge of thorny vines.
A patch of witchbriars occupies a 10-foot Cube and has AC 11; HP 30; and Immunity to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Psychic
damage. When a creature casts a spell using a spell slot within 10 feet of witchbriars, thorny vines reach out to entwine the
creature. The creature must succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or have the Grappled condition (escape DC 14). Druids
automatically succeed on this saving throw. While the target is Grappled in this way, it has the Restrained condition and takes 11
(2d10) Piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. One patch of witchbriars can grapple up to four creatures at a time.
Any amount of Fire damage destroys a patch of witchbriars instantly.
A PATCH OF WITCHBRIARS SNAGS A NETHERESE PEASANT AND MAGEARTIST: ZUZANNA WUZYK

--- PAGE 50 ---

CHAPTER 3CHAPTER 3


--- PAGE 51 ---

↑ Through the Time Gates

--- PAGE 52 ---

ARTIST: JULIAN KOK

--- PAGE 54 ---

Scattered throughout Faerûn are places of temporal magic so powerful they allow travel through space and time. This chapter
details two such time gates leading to cities in ancient Netheril.
You might want your characters to travel to these time gates and into their linked Netherese cities as part of specific adventures.
In this case, examples of such adventures are detailed below. If you wish to skip the time gates and start a game in ancient
Netheril, chapter 4 provides adventures that take place in Eileanar and Conch.
Time gates are powerful game mechanisms, and you should allow them in your game only to facilitate the stories you want to tell.
Feel free to change any details about the time gates in this chapter as you see fit.
PASSING THROUGH A TIME GATE IS A DRAMATIC EXPERIENCE

--- PAGE 55 ---

↑ ABOUT  T IME  G ATES
Time gates are little-known and ancient magical portals similar to a planar portal (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide), except they
are permanent, stationary connections with a portal that links two specific times and places on the Material Plane. The earliest
texts tied to gods of magic mention time gates’ existence, though their locations are well-kept secrets.
Time gates are magical objects that have Immunity to all damage. A time gate might have a literal doorway built around its portal,
or a time gate’s portal might be at the bottom of a pit or open through a shimmering veil in the air. Regardless, time gates’ portals
are always visible. The “other side” of the portal might look as conspicuous or as subtle as the portal’s location in the present day,
though both sides of the portal need not look the same.
Such a portal commonly looks like a shimmery blue mirror. Instead of a reflection, however, the portal usually shows a faraway
image of the place the time gate leads to.
RELATIVE  T IME  G ATES
The time gates described below are relative—they connect two locations that are separated by a fixed interval of time. The time
gate called Fool’s Needle, in the Anauroch desert, leads to the flying city of Eileanar exactly 1,839 years in the past. For example, if
characters step through the gate on the first day of Tarsakh, 1501 DR, they emerge in Eileanar on that same date in the year –338
DR (which is 3520 in the Netheril Year calendar). The time gate in the High Ice, called the Forgotten Chamber, leads to the port city
of Conch, also 1,839 years in the past. The year –338 DR is one year before Karsus’s Folly.
Relative time gates allow for travel in both directions. A character in the past who enters the portal is transported forward a fixed
interval in time (1,839 years, in the case of the portals in this chapter).
OTHER  T IME  G ATES
Other time gates in Faerûn connect two points in time in different ways. Some transport travelers to a random time and place.
Others respond to the wishes of the traveler, so those who travel through the gate while thinking about a specific time and place in
the past are transported to that location. Still others always lead to a specific day or even moment in time. You can use such a
time gate in your game to transport characters to any location at any time.
TIME  G ATES ’ E NVIRONMENTS
The existence of a time gate warps the surrounding area. The following effects persist within 1 mile of a time gate:
Strange Weather. The atmosphere of another era mixes with that of the present day, often creating unusually colored fog, erratic
rain, incongruous wind, or rainbows.
Nature out of Time. Long-extinct creatures, such as Mammoths or Saber-Toothed Tigers, wander the area. Other creatures in the
area might be heavily evolved and strangely shaggy or oddly patterned.
Alien Features. Potent temporal magic saturates colors and exaggerates the land’s physical features. Geography is often warped,
with strange rock or ice formations arising at angles that defy gravity.
As a Study action, a character can examine the surroundings and make a DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana or Investigation) check. On a
successful check, the character realizes the signs of a nearby time gate. Spellcasters can also seek knowledge about the time
gate and where it leads by casting spells such as Commune with Nature, Speak with Animals, or Speak with Dead.
S T E

--- PAGE 56 ---

SEVERE  T EMPORAL  E FFECTS
The closer characters come to a time gate, the stronger its temporal magic swirls, creating even more potent effects. Roll or
choose an option on the Weird Time Gate Effects table below to determine the effects within 60 feet of a portal:
WEIRD  T IME  G ATE  E FFECTS
1d4 Effect
1Extreme Weather. The area has one environmental effect: extreme cold, extreme heat, heavy precipitation, or strong wind
(see the Dungeon Master’s Guide for details about each).
2Dulled or Warped Magic. The area is a dead magic zone or wild magic zone (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide for details
about both). The presence of either zone doesn’t affect the time gate.
3 Fast Movement. All creatures’ Speeds are doubled.
4 Slow Movement. All creatures’ Speeds are halved (round down).

--- PAGE 57 ---

↑ FOOL ’ S  N EEDLE
MAP: FOOL’S NEEDLE(DM-VERSION ABOVE, PLAYER-VERSION BELOW)ARTIST: MIKE SCHLEY


--- PAGE 58 ---

In the wilds of Anauroch, nestled among the Plain of Standing Stones, a time gate at a place called Fool’s Needle leads to the flying
Netherese city of Eileanar, 1,839 years in the past. Also known as Karsus’s Enclave, Eileanar is detailed in chapter 1.
Fool’s Needle is a towering structure made of quartz and granite. It stabs from the sky into the desert floor, narrowing as it
descends. The desert’s inhabitants, who named it, say it is a cursed place to be feared and shunned. Their tradition tells that only
death awaits those who attempt to scale it.
Fool’s Needle is shown on Map: Fool’s Needle. The sections below provide general information appropriate for creating adventures
of any level here; simply fill in your encounters with appropriate creatures from the Monster Manual. An example adventure follows
later in this chapter.
THE N EEDLE ’ S  A SCENT
A steep, spiraling, rocky path winds from the desert floor up the spike, as shown on the inset. The path’s treacherous nature makes
it Difficult Terrain. The path is 5 feet wide. Travelers attempting the climb are exposed to rockslides (see the Dungeon Master’s
Guide), as well as the predators roosting atop the structure, described further below.
Near the top of Fool’s Needle, strange ferns grow from the rock, and brightly colored songbirds feed on jeweled dragonflies.
Flickers of magical light dance harmlessly at the edges of one’s vision.
THE N EEDLE ’ S  S UMMIT
The top of Fool’s Needle is a wide, flat area about 90 feet across. In the northeast corner, flying predators have built a roost. The
northwest corner is piled with rocks, while the southern half holds a 10-foot-deep pool of bright-blue water. In the center of the
plateau is a 30-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall mesa atop which stands the portal that leads to Eileanar. A distant view of the flying city is
visible from either side of the portal.


--- PAGE 59 ---

INTO  E ILEANAR
Those who pass through the portal step onto a marble walkway surrounded by electric-green shrubbery, colorful flowers, and
floating marble statues of imposing mages. This is the Court of Fountains in Eileanar, described in chapter 1.

--- PAGE 60 ---

↑ ADVENTURE  AT  F OOL ’ S  N EEDLE
The following adventure sends characters to Fool’s Needle and into Eileanar beyond.
A P OINT  OF  P RIDE
Adventure for Level 3 Characters
Situation. A lifetime of research has led a dying sage to discover the time gate to Eileanar in the Anauroch desert.
Hook. The kind, elderly human Krazbrax Nixel (Medium, Lawful Good Noble) is on death’s door in Dagger Falls in the Dalelands,
and the characters have a close relationship with him. Unable to travel, Krazbrax asks the characters to go to Fool’s Needle, travel
through the time gate’s portal, confirm it leads to ancient Netheril, and report back with proof. Krazbrax promises to pay each
character 150 GP for their efforts and tells them they can keep any Netherese treasures they find.
ENCOUNTERS
If needed, Krazbrax arranges for the characters’ transportation to the base of Fool’s Needle. The trip is uneventful. The adventure
then consists of the following encounters, which take place on Map: Fool’s Needle. Throughout this adventure, the characters are
subject to the desert’s extreme heat (see chapter 3 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide).
Desert Floor. Two Giant Scorpions lurk near the base of the spiraling path at Fool’s Needle. Characters with a Passive Perception
score of 12+ notice the creatures buried in the sand. When a character comes with 15 feet of a scorpion, the creatures begin
combat.
Early Ascent. Due to the winding nature and Difficult Terrain of the ascending path, it takes 3 hours to navigate the first 85 feet.
During this journey, the characters are subject to a rockslide (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide) that carries the characters back
down the path. After the rockslide is resolved, roll or choose an effect from the Weird Time Gate Effects table earlier in this
chapter. This effect is present for the rest of the characters’ climb.
When the characters are 40 feet from the summit, three Griffons roosting there fight them. When the characters are 20 feet from
the summit, another rockslide carrying back down the path occurs (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide ).

--- PAGE 61 ---

Summit. Once the characters reach the top of Fool’s Needle, they discover one or more strange creatures lurking near the portal.
Roll or choose an option on the Fool’s Needle Gate Creatures table below. All creatures are Hostile toward the characters and fight
until destroyed.
FOOL ’ S  N EEDLE  G ATE  C REATURES
1d6 Creature Details Difficulty
1 Flameskull The remains of an overzealous Netherese mage, this creature is enraged and
confused after accidentally floating through the time gate.Moderate
2 Two BasilisksThe result of irresponsible summoning, these aggressive creatures wreaked havoc in
Eileanar until their summoner accidentally shoved them through the time gate.Moderate
3Helmed HorrorA magical bodyguard to a low-ranking mage, this creature wandered through the time
gate and thinks the characters threaten its creator.Moderate
4Beholder ZombieThis magical experiment gone awry doesn’t seem to know or care that it wandered
through the time gate; it wants only to destroy everything it can.Moderate
5Eldritch Eddy (see
appendix B)This dangerous magical storm originated in Eileanar and now rampages on Fool’s
Needle.High
6Virvos Magen (see
appendix B)This confused Netherese servant took a wrong turn on the way to a party; it’s
convinced the characters have killed its master.High
Conclusion. Once the way to the gate is clear, the characters can travel through time into Eileanar. When they do, each character
earns 400 XP.
The flying city is the site of the characters’ next adventures, as you see fit. Providing Krazbrax with proof the characters visited
Eileanar might be as simple as describing the wonders the characters saw at the Court of Fountains. Or perhaps Aurivyl, the elf in
charge of the court (see chapter 1), offers the characters a Common or Uncommon magic item from appendix A in exchange for
the characters’ retrieval of an important tome or spellcasting components found elsewhere in the city.
Once the characters return through the portal to the present, they can easily make their way back to Dagger Falls, where Krazbrax
gives the characters their reward.

--- PAGE 62 ---

↑ THE F ORGOTTEN  C HAMBER
ARTIST: MIKE SCHLEY


--- PAGE 65 ---

MAP: THE FORGOTTEN CHAMBER(DM-VERSION ABOVE, PLAYER-VERSION BELOW)


--- PAGE 68 ---

In the western High Ice north of the Oume Rift lies a time gate nestled in what sages call the Forgotten Chamber. The time gate
leads 1,839 years in the past to the ancient Netherese city of Conch, which was once a central river-port city that thrummed with
commerce. In Netheril’s waning days, civil unrest against the ruling mages, as well as attacks from phaerimm, made Conch a
volatile place. For more about Conch, see chapter 1.
The Forgotten Chamber lies inside a dormant volcano’s caldera along a path called the Road of Gems, which winds through the
High Ice. The Forgotten Chamber is shown on Map: The Forgotten Chamber. The sections below provide general information
appropriate for creating adventures of any level here; simply fill in your encounters with appropriate creatures from the Monster
Manual. An example adventure follows later in this chapter.

--- PAGE 69 ---

THE R OAD  OF  G EMS
A natural glacial rift, the Road of Gems spiderwebs through the
region, cutting through solid ice that often rises over 30 feet on
both sides. Over the centuries, miners have discovered many
caves full of precious stones and minerals near the Road of
Gems.
The Road of Gems section of Map: The Forgotten Chamber
shows the road’s layout in the area surrounding the Forgotten
Chamber. Where the road dead-ends, the path dips
underground into mines or caverns. Exploring these is outside
the scope of seeking the time gate in the Forgotten Chamber. If
you’d like to include these areas in your game, consider using
the Mine and Underdark Warren maps in appendix B of the
Dungeon Master’s Guide and populate them with creatures
from the Underdark Monsters list in appendix B of the Monster
Manual.
THE C ALDERA
The caldera surrounding the Forgotten Chamber’s time gate is
accessible from three points via the Road of Gems (or from
overhead for flying characters). The caldera slopes downward
at a steep angle, making the caldera’s lip Difficult Terrain. The
bottom of the caldera is flat and surrounds a 10-foot-deep
chasm that holds the time gate’s portal. A distant view of the
port city is visible from either side of the portal.
INTO  C ONCH
Those who pass through the portal from the Forgotten
Chamber emerge from a wall just inside the mouth of a
mineshaft in Conch. Stepping outside reveals a busy quarry
filled with Low Netherese laborers toiling under the close eye of
an angry, despotic human spellcaster named Jharsinius
(Medium, Neutral Evil Mage).
ARTIST: LUCA BANCONE

--- PAGE 70 ---

TIME GATES ARE OFTEN NESTLED IN DANGEROUS
LOCALES

--- PAGE 71 ---

↑ ADVENTURE  AT  THE  F ORGOTTEN  C HAMBER
The following adventure sends characters to the Forgotten Chamber and into Conch beyond.
THE M ISSING  G NOME
Adventure for Level 3 Characters
Situation. A beloved but eccentric gnome scholar in Graevelwood, a settlement two hundred miles west of the Forgotten Chamber,
has uncovered the Forgotten Chamber’s location as well as details about the time gate there. Named Vigglestern (Small, Neutral
Good Noble), the scholar is fascinated with ancient Netheril; after several townspeople refused to believe his discovery,
Vigglestern set out for the High Ice with the intent to time travel into Conch and bring back proof he’s visited Netheril.
Hook. The leader of Graevelwood is Vigglestern’s granddaughter, a gnome named Zalneen (Small, Neutral Good Commoner). She
discovered a note her grandfather left detailing his intentions and is terrified for the older gnome’s safety. Zalneen offers to pay the
characters 150 GP each to follow Vigglestern’s trail and bring him safely home.
ENCOUNTERS
Graevelwood lies in the eastern reaches of Arn Forest. The journey from the forest, across a narrow strip of cold desert, and into
the High Ice is uneventful. Vigglestern has several days’ head start on the characters, though remains of recent campfires suggest
the characters are close on the gnome’s trail.
Allow the characters to approach the Forgotten Chamber from whichever direction they wish. The characters run into trouble once
they reach the section of the road shown on the bottom of Map: The Forgotten Chamber.
Unwitting Prey. Two Winter Wolves begin stalking the characters. Any character with a Passive Perception score of 16+ notices
the wolves, whose den is in a nearby cavern of your choosing. If no characters notice the wolves, the wolves ambush the
characters, staying near each other to take advantage of their Pack Tactics ability.
Surprise! Once a character is within 100 feet of the caldera’s lip, a Young Remorhaz bursts from the ground. The remorhaz retreats
if it is Bloodied.
A Bloody Scene. This encounter takes place in the central portion of Map: The Forgotten Chamber. Once the characters reach the
bottom of the caldera, they find a few drops of blood leading into the portal. The blood belongs to Vigglestern. Before the
characters can climb into the chasm, a strange creature confronts them; Vigglestern tripped and injured himself while running
away from this creature before the gnome jumped through the portal.

--- PAGE 72 ---

Roll or choose an option on the Forgotten Chamber Gate Creatures table below. All creatures are Hostile toward the characters
and fight until destroyed.
FORGOTTEN  C HAMBER  G ATE  C REATURES
1d8Creature Details Difficulty
1 Yeti Unaware of the time gate, this yeti lives in the caldera and defends it from intruders. Low
2Hook HorrorThis confused predator wandered through the portal from a nearby mining tunnel in Conch.Low
3 GhostThe remnants of a High Netherese shift commander who was poisoned by her workers, this
furious Undead assumes the characters are responsible for her death.Moderate
4 Ettin This obstinate creature was indiscriminately killing miners when it accidentally wandered
through the portal.Moderate
5 Black
PuddingHigh Netherese mages released this creature into Conch’s mines to punish disobedient
miners, but it mistakenly trudged through the portal.Moderate
6Giant Axe
BeakThis oblivious creature wants to build a nest in the chasm that holds the portal. High
7Otyugh This creature gorged itself on trash from Conch’s mining tunnels before accidentally
lumbering through the portal.High
8 TrollA scout for a larger band of trolls, this creature wants to clear the caldera of all threats before
its companions move in.High
Finding Vigglestern. When the characters step through the portal and emerge in Conch, they can easily follow the trail of
Vigglestern’s blood into a nearby alcove inside the mining shaft. When the characters find the gnome, each character earns 400 XP.
The injured Vigglestern has 5 Hit Points remaining. Although the shouting from the mines’ overseers terrify him, the gnome
refuses to accompany the characters back to Graevelwood without some proof of his journey to Conch.
Any character can argue that describing Conch’s mines is proof enough for Graevelwood’s villagers to believe Vigglestern, who
should stay hidden due to the place’s dangers. The gnome readily agrees and asks the characters to explore the area, take note of
details, and return to him when they’re ready to go home.
At your discretion, the characters might also confront Jharsinius, the overseer of this section of the mine (see “Into Conch”).
Jharsinius is outside the mineshaft shouting at four human Low Netherese Commoners, whose productivity the mage finds
lacking. Jharsinius carries a Magen Handbell (see appendix A).
Conclusion. Once the characters return Vigglestern to Graevelwood, Zalneen gives them their promised reward.

--- PAGE 73 ---

CHAPTER 4CHAPTER 4


--- PAGE 74 ---

↑ Escape From the Past

--- PAGE 75 ---

ARTIST: SAMUEL PERIN

--- PAGE 77 ---

Experimentation with temporal magic was rife before Netheril’s fall. At key points in Netherese history, the fabric of time and space
frequently thinned and warped.
You can use this warped fabric to pull your characters from any period in the Forgotten Realms or beyond into ancient Netheril,
where they can adventure before discovering a way back home.
THE COSMOS-SHAKING MAGIC OF KARSUS’S FOLLY DRIVES A CALDRON MAGEN INTO A VIOLENT FRENZY

--- PAGE 78 ---

↑ TIME -T RAVEL  A DVENTURES
The adventures in this section deposit characters into harrowing situations in ancient Netheril.
ATTACK  OF  THE  P HAERIMM
Adventure for Level 3 Characters
Situation. A Netherese mage named Tyvern was conducting a time-travel experiment in a chamber in his workshop in Conch when
phaerimm attacked the city. The interrupted experiment exploded in a blast of temporal energy, pulling the adventurers to the
workshop.
Hook. The characters find themselves in a magical workshop in Conch in the midst of a phaerimm assault during Netheril’s
Shadowed Age. They are in immediate danger and must escape before they can find a way home.
E
PHAERIMM ATTACKS ON CONCH WERE BRUTAL AND UNANTICIPATED,
LEADING TO A CONSTANT STATE OF FEAR AND CHAOS IN THE CITYARTIST: SAMUEL PERIN

--- PAGE 79 ---

ENCOUNTERS
ARTIST: MIKE SCHLEY


--- PAGE 80 ---

MAP: TYVERN’S WORKSHOP(DM-VERSION ABOVE, PLAYER-VERSION BELOW)


--- PAGE 81 ---

This adventure consists of the following encounters and takes place on Map: Tyvern’s Workshop. Squares with rubble or flames in
them are Difficult Terrain.
Sudden Disaster. An explosion of white energy transports the characters to the center of the first floor. They have the Prone
condition.
The southeastern portion of the workshop has just exploded. The echo of an explosion rings, and the dust hasn’t settled. The
experimentation chamber in the workshop’s center is intact; Tyvern’s magical mishap exploded southward, sparing the structure.
The characters notice two conical shapes near the fire. These are Phaerimm Scouts. When a character stands, one scout
telepathically tells each character, “I can taste the magic here! You shall die!” The scouts fight the characters to the death.
Once the scouts are defeated, the characters find three Potions of Healing in the remnants of smashed belongings on the floor.
They also find an Arcane Battery, a Hat of Vortexes, a Mask of Changed Appearance, and a Mythallar Bracelet.
Plea for Help. The characters hear a weak voice calling for help from upstairs. If the characters head to the second floor, they
notice the workshop’s roof is sheared off and open to the sky. A portion of the southwest wall has collapsed. This is damage from
the phaerimm attack on the city.
Trapped under the rubble, Tyvern (Medium Mage), a red-haired human, begs to be freed and promises a rich reward. Tyvern fled
upstairs when the phaerimm attacked. If the characters are obviously time travelers, Tyvern insists he can send them home if the
characters help him.
A character who takes a Utilize action and succeeds on a DC 13 Strength (Athletics) check frees Tyvern from the rubble. If the
characters free him, he explains his experimentation and why the characters might have been transported here, if applicable. He
says that his botched experiment coincidentally happened at the same time as the phaerimm attack. If the characters rescue
Tyvern, each of them earns 400 XP.
After a few minutes, the characters notice an enormous, ominous shadow approaching overhead. This is a Phaerimm Elder. If any
creature remains upstairs in the workshop after 1 minute has passed, the elder fights them, likely destroying them. If the
characters flee downstairs, with or without Tyvern, the elder ignores them.
Back Downstairs. When the characters are downstairs, they find four Phaerimm Hatchlings and two Phaerimm Scouts sifting
through the workshop’s remains. The phaerimm fight the characters to the death.
Conclusion. Once the workshop has been cleared of phaerimm, if Tyvern is with the characters, he awards them 150 GP each and
the Brooch of the Elements (see appendix a) he’s wearing. If the characters are time travelers, he suggests that he might be able to
return them to their time by reversing his experiment’s steps. He asks for a few days to experiment, and encourages the characters
to explore the city. Tyvern readily provides the details about Conch found in chapter 1.
If Tyvern isn’t present, a character proficient in Arcana can reactivate the time-travel experiment by spending 1 hour studying
Tyvern’s notes, taking a Magic action, and succeeding on a DC 12 Intelligence (Arcana) check. The characters can reactivate the
experiment whenever they wish, leaving them free to explore the city.
CHAOS  IN  THE  S TREETS
Adventure for Level 5 Characters
Situation. Weeks after the fall of Eileanar and several other flying cities, the city of Conch is inundated with those who need help,
and the authorities are overwhelmed. A selfish smuggling gang has taken advantage of the distracted watch to rough up those
who owe them money. Temporal magic rippling through the cosmos after Karsus’s Folly pulls the characters into the alleys.
Hook. The characters find themselves in Conch’s alleyways in the Riverside district and witness a murder. They must contend with
certain danger, possibly following and confronting the killer before finding a way home.
E

--- PAGE 82 ---

ENCOUNTERS
ARTIST: MIKE SCHLEY


--- PAGE 85 ---

MAP: CONCH ALLEYWAYS(DM-VERSION ABOVE, PLAYER-VERSION BELOW)


--- PAGE 88 ---

The adventure consists of the following encounters and uses Map: Conch Alleyways, which shows the alleys where the
encounters take place. The buildings surrounding the alleys are locked, and accessing them is outside the scope of this adventure.
There’s Been a Murder! An explosion of white energy transports the characters to the southern end of alley A.
To the north is a broken statue of a robed mage, beside which dangles a gnome (Small Commoner) held aloft by an unseen force.
Before the characters can act, the gnome’s throat bleeds heavily and he falls to the ground, dead.
Flanking the gnome are three Chaotic Evil Lizardfolk Sovereigns. When they notice the characters, the lizardfolk shout threats and
start combat. The lizardfolk are named Retta, Torm, and Vill, and they’re members of a river smuggling gang called the
Swampclaws. If a Swampclaw is reduced to 20 Hit Points or fewer, all three attempt to surrender, promising to tell the characters
anything they wish to know in exchange for their lives.
A Swampclaw can reveal that the gnome was killed by Yorg, an Invisible Stalker under the Swampclaw leader’s command. Yorg
has sped into another nearby alley just a block away (alley B on the map) to chase down the gnome’s siblings. The gnomes ran
afoul of the gang when they accepted river transport for their embroidered textiles but couldn’t pay their fees on time.
If the characters don’t accept the lizardfolk's surrender, the Swampclaws attack again, taunting the characters with the above
information. They are certain Yorg will defeat the characters if they give chase.
Save the Gnomes. After learning about alley B’s location, the characters can reach it easily. When the characters arrive in alley B,
they find four human officers of the guard (Medium, Chaotic Evil Guard Captains) staking out the stairway that leads down to alley
C. The guard officers—named Jolm, Brea, Derk, and Terra—start combat as soon as they see the characters.
These corrupt guard officers are also Swampclaws helping Yorg. Once one officer dies, the others surrender, revealing that Yorg is
in alley C downstairs, where the gnome siblings are hiding.
Finally Got You. When the characters arrive in alley C, they see two gnomes dangling in the air, begging for their lives. The Invisible
Stalker Yorg taunts the gnomes for their foolishness before it moves to kill them. If the characters interrupt, Yorg drops the
gnomes and fights the characters to the death.
Conclusion. If the characters save the gnomes, the siblings reveal themselves to be Low Netherese textile merchants named
Bernadoo and Hipplepoff Tindertoe. They ran when Yorg grabbed their brother, Thomp. If the characters saved the gnome siblings,
each character earns an additional 1,100 XP.
The siblings are distraught at their brother’s death but thank the characters profusely. Though they have little to pay as a reward,
the gnomes offer to take the characters to their stall in the Dockmarket (see chapter 1). There, the gnomes happily trade their
textiles to purchase any magic item of Rare or lower rarity from appendix A that the characters want. Returning to their own time
might be the characters’ next adventure, as you see fit.
THE D OOMED  A POTHEOSIS
Adventure for Level 8 Characters
Situation. Karsus is casting the spell that eventually sends Eileanar plummeting to its doom. The flux of his magic interfering with
Mystryl’s divine power creates a powerful time vortex that pulls the characters to his acropolis in Eileanar.
Hook. The characters find themselves in Karsus’s Arcane Acropolis as Karsus draws magical power toward himself like a black
hole. The characters are stuck in the acropolis as magic malfunctions and backfires around them, endangering everyone in the
area.
E

--- PAGE 89 ---

ENCOUNTERS
ARTIST: MIKE SCHLEY


--- PAGE 90 ---

The adventure consists of the following encounters and uses Map: Karsus’s Sanctum, which shows the section of Karsus’s
Sanctum where the encounters take place. During these encounters, Karsus is in the center of the sanctum, as shown on the map,
surrounded by an impenetrable globe of raw magic. He is slowly growing larger, has Immunity to all damage, and is unaware of his
surroundings. The characters can’t affect Karsus in any way, and he can’t perceive them.
Flumph Keeper. An explosion of white energy transports the characters to the sanctum, just north of the stairway. Another blue
barrier of impenetrable magic surrounds the sanctum like a dome, and the characters are trapped.
A frantic human named Youmi (Medium, Chaotic Good Mage Apprentice) shouts for help from near the southeastern balcony. She
gestures wildly for the characters to help her stop one Terran Magen and two Caldron Magen (see appendix b for both) from
destroying four terrified Flumphs, which are backed into the balcony’s corner. The magen are driven berserk by Karsus’s fluctuating
magic and have just started combat with the flumphs. If the characters fight them, the magen turn their attention to the characters
and fight to the death. Otherwise, the magen kill the flumphs before fighting the characters.
If the flumphs survive, Youmi becomes Friendly. She explains that Karsus is attempting to cast a spell to replace the god of magic
and admits she’s sickened by the archmage’s hubris and recklessness. As an Influence action, a character can try to convince
Youmi to join their group to help them navigate the city, doing so with a successful DC 16 Charisma (Persuasion) check.
Collection of Wonders. Each of the pedestals shown on the map holds a magical item. Karsus was trying to stabilize his magical
experimentations using these items, but it backfired. If she’s alive, Youmi suggests the characters remove the magic items from
the pedestals to dampen Karsus’s fluctuating magic.
Clockwise from the westernmost pedestal, the pedestals hold Boots of Speed, a Ring of Regeneration, a Fork of Eddy Summoning
(see appendix a), and a Mythallar Cloak (see appendix a). If the characters want to keep the items, Youmi doesn’t stop them.
Uncontrolled Magic. After the characters take a magic item from a pedestal, or after they’ve finished talking with Youmi, four
Eldritch Eddies appear near them in places of your choosing. These eddies appear only once.
Karsus’s Magic Rising. After the eddies are destroyed, the dome surrounding the area explodes in a flash of bright blue light. The
characters are no longer trapped in the area. Four Mages, all humans, rush up the stairs and toward Karsus, screaming that there’s
no time to talk and casting Dispel Magic and other mitigating spells on the energy surrounding their master. After 5 minutes, the
magic thrumming through the area stabilizes, although the globe surrounding Karsus is now much larger. Calmed for now, the
mages offer to escort the characters to the public portion of Karsus’s Arcane Acropolis, described in chapter 1. Each character
earns 2,100 XP.
Conclusion. The characters have some time to explore Eileanar before Karsus eventually dies and the flying city plummets to the
ground. How long is up to you; it might be anywhere from a few hours to a week or longer. Regardless, returning to their own time
is the characters’ next adventure.MAP: KARSUS’S SANCTUM

--- PAGE 91 ---

APPENDIX A APPENDIX A


--- PAGE 92 ---

↑ Magic Items
This section details magic items that characters might find during their adventures in Netheril.


--- PAGE 93 ---

↑ ARCANE  B ATTE RY
Wondrous Item, Uncommon
This smooth, oval stone is etched with faintly glowing, magical symbols. While holding the battery, you can take a Magic action to
touch the battery to one magic item. If that magic item normally regains expended charges daily, it immediately regains 1d4 + 1
expended charges, and the battery loses its magic.


--- PAGE 94 ---

↑ BROOCH  OF  THE  E LEMENTS
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
The central jewel of this butterfly-shaped brooch swirls with multicolored iridescence.
The brooch has 3 charges and regains all expended charges daily at dawn. As a Reaction when a creature you can see within 60
feet of you hits a target with an attack roll and deals damage, you can expend 1 charge and change one damage type the attack
deals to one of the following damage types: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, or Thunder.


--- PAGE 95 ---

↑ FORK  OF  E DDY  S UMMONING
Wondrous Item, Rare
This Tiny tuning fork crackles with harmless, multicolored magical energy. As a Magic action, you can tap the fork against any
object to summon an Eldritch Eddy (see appendix B). The eddy appears in an unoccupied space as close to you as possible. The
eddy is Friendly to you and your allies, and it obeys your commands. If you fail to command it, the eddy defends itself against
attackers but takes no other actions. It takes its turn immediately after you on your Initiative count. The eddy disappears after 1
hour, when it dies, or when you dismiss it as a Bonus Action. The fork can’t be used this way again until the next dawn.


--- PAGE 96 ---

↑ HAT OF  V ORTEXES
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
This hat has 3 charges and regains all expended charges daily at dawn. You can take a Magic action and expend 1 charge while
holding the hat to release a magical vortex from it. The vortex fills a 10-foot Cube originating from you and lasts for 1 hour. While
the vortex is present, its area is Difficult Terrain.
You decide a vortex’s visual details when you create it. For instance, the vortex might be multicolored or glittery.


--- PAGE 97 ---

↑ MAGEN  H ANDBELL
Wondrous Item, Rare
While holding this brass handbell, you can take a Magic action to ring it and summon a Terran Magen (see appendix B). The
magen appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 30 feet of yourself, understands your languages, obeys your
commands, and takes its turn immediately after you on your Initiative count. The magen disappears after 1 hour, when it dies, or
when you dismiss it as a Bonus Action. The bell can’t be used this way again for 1d6 days.
Berserk Magen. Whenever the magen summoned by this item starts its turn Bloodied, roll 1d6. On a 6, the magen goes berserk.
While berserk, the magen no longer obeys your commands, and you can’t dismiss it as a Bonus Action. On each of its turns, the
berserk magen attacks the nearest creature it can see. If no creature is near enough for the magen to move to and attack, the
magen attacks an object. The magen remains berserk until it disappears, or until a creature holding the handbell takes an
Influence action and succeeds on a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check to regain control of the magen.


--- PAGE 98 ---

↑ MASK  OF  C HANGED  A PPEARANCE
Wondrous Item, Common
This jeweled mask has 3 charges. As a Magic action, you can expend 1 charge and change your face’s appearance. You can’t
make yourself look like a different person, but you can smooth or deepen your wrinkles, whiten your teeth, hide or accentuate bags
under your eyes, or perform other minor cosmetic changes. While your appearance is changed, the mask has the Invisible
condition. Your changed appearance lasts 1 hour.
Regaining Charges. The mask regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the
mask explodes in a harmless cloud of sweet-swelling powder and is destroyed.


--- PAGE 99 ---

↑ MYTHALLAR  B RACELET
Wondrous Item, Common
Three small, crystal beads made from a decommissioned mythallar are strung on this leather bracelet. As a Magic action, you can
pluck one bead from the bracelet to gain Advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks for 1 minute.
A bead disappears immediately after it’s plucked. Once all three beads have been plucked, the bracelet loses its magic.


--- PAGE 100 ---

↑ MYTHALLAR  C LOAK
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This electric-blue cloak is studded with sewn-in crystals that are shards of a decommissioned mythallar. The cloak has 10 charges
and regains 1d10 expended charges daily at dawn.
While wearing the cloak, you can take a Bonus Action and expend 1 charge to activate the cloak’s magic. The magic lasts for 1
minute or until you end it early (no action required).
While the cloak’s magic is active, you gain a Fly Speed of 30 feet and can hover. Additionally, once on each of your turns when you
hit a creature with an attack roll and deal damage, you can cause the target to take an extra 1d4 Radiant damage. If you are aloft
when the cloak’s magic ends, you fall.

--- PAGE 101 ---

APPENDIX BAPPENDIX B


--- PAGE 102 ---

↑ Bestiary
This appendix details monsters found in ancient Netheril.

--- PAGE 103 ---

↑ ELDRITCH  E DDY
Violent, Uncontrolled Magical Whirlwind
Habitat: Urban; Treasure: None
When magical energy becomes dangerously unstable, it sometimes animates into an eldritch eddy: an uncontrolled whirlwind of
Evocation magic that crackles with fire and lightning. Eldritch eddies typically arise where magic use is heavy and irresponsible,
such as near a fanatical mage’s sanctum, a workshop that churns out magic items, or a library where undertrained scribes work
with Spell Scrolls. Eldritch eddies are common in ancient Netheril near the homes and workplaces of famous mages.
Eldritch eddies rampage with one purpose: destroy as much in their paths as possible. Before eldritch eddies manifest, telltale
signs signal their arrival. Roll on or choose a result from the Eldritch Eddy Manifestations table to inspire what happens right
before an eldritch eddy arises.
ELDRITCH  E DDY  M ANIFESTATIONS
1d6 Right Before an Eddy Manifests …
1 Brightly colored sparks fly through the air like fireworks.
2 Spectral images of screaming mages or terrible beasts swirl in a whirlwind.
3 Electricity flashes, flames ignite, and the air smells acrid.
4 Purple smoke billows into a vortex.
5 A geyser of multicolored light shoots from the ground toward the sky.
6 The air shimmers, and unsettling laughter booms from all directions.
ARTIST: ZUZANNA WUZYK

--- PAGE 104 ---

ELDRITCH  E DDY
Large Construct, Chaotic Neutral
AC 11Initiative +1 (11)
HP 144 (17d10 + 51)
Speed 10 ft.; Fly 40 ft. (hover)
Ability Score Mod Save
Str10 +0 +0
Dex12 +1 +4
Con16 +3 +3
ELDRITCH EDDIES OFTEN CROPPED UP IN THE MOST INOPPORTUNE PLACES IN ANCIENT NETHERIL

--- PAGE 105 ---

Ability Score Mod Save
Int12 +1 +4
Wis9 –1 –1
Cha17 +3 +6
Resistances Force
Immunities Fire, Lightning; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
SensesBlindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
Languages Understands Common plus one other language but can’t speak
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The eddy has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The eddy makes two attacks, using Searing Swipe or Arcane Bolt in any combination.
Searing Swipe.Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 10 ft. Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) Fire or Lightning damage (eddy’s choice).
Arcane Bolt.Ranged Attack Roll: +6, range 120 ft. Hit: 14 (2d10 + 3) Force damage.
Reactions
Eldritch Overload.Trigger: The eddy takes damage. Response—Strength Saving Throw: DC 14, each creature of the eddy’s choice
in a 5-foot Emanation originating from the eddy. Failure: 7 (2d6) Force damage, and the target has the Prone condition.

--- PAGE 106 ---

↑ MAGEN
Versatile Servants Formed from Magic
Habitat: Any; Treasure:Arcana
Magen are humanoid-shaped beings, created through magical means, that follow their creators’ instructions without hesitation.
Magen are formed from pure magical energy, though their bodies are corporeal. Magen’s blood resembles mercury, and when they
are killed, their bodies disintegrate into dust.
CALDRON  M AGEN
Caldron magen are powerful bodyguards that stretch their limbs and spit acid in defense of those they protect.
CALDRON  M AGEN
Medium Construct, Unaligned
CALDRON MAGENARTIST: JOHN TEDRICK

--- PAGE 107 ---

AC 20Initiative +3 (13)
HP 67 (9d8 + 27)
Speed 30 ft.
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Str18 +4 +4
Dex13 +1 +1
Con16 +3 +3
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Int10 +0 +0
Wis10 +0 +0
Cha10 +0 +0
SkillsPerception +4
Immunities Acid, Poison; Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Passive Perception 14
Languages Understands Common plus two other languages but can’t speak
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
Traits
Disintegration. If the magen dies, it disintegrates into dust, leaving behind anything it was wearing or carrying.
Magic Resistance. The magen has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The magen makes two attacks, using Extended Fist or Acid Spittle in any combination.
Extended Fist.Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 15 ft. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) Bludgeoning damage plus 5 (1d10) Acid damage. If the target is a
Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 14) from one of two fists.
Acid Spittle.Ranged Attack Roll: +6, range 60 ft. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Acid damage.
TERRAN  M AGEN
Terran magen are equipped with magic to help them perform laborious physical tasks. These magen commonly perform
household handiwork and build infrastructure.
ARTIST: JOHN TEDRICK

--- PAGE 108 ---

TERRAN  M AGEN
Medium Construct, Unaligned
AC 21Initiative +3 (13)
HP 121 (22d8 + 22)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 20 ft. (hover)
TERRAN MAGEN

--- PAGE 109 ---

Ability Score MOD SAVE
Str16 +3 +3
Dex10 +0 +0
Con12 +1 +1
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Int10 +0 +0
Wis18 +4 +7
Cha10 +0 +0
SkillsPerception +7
Immunities Poison, Thunder; Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Passive Perception 17
Languages Understands Common plus two other languages but can’t speak
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Traits
Disintegration. If the magen dies, it disintegrates into dust, leaving behind anything it was wearing or carrying.
Magic Resistance. The magen has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The magen makes two attacks, using Hammer Fist or Thunderous Boom in any combination.
Hammer Fist.Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) Bludgeoning damage plus 13 (3d8) Force damage.
Thunderous Boom.Ranged Attack Roll: +7, range 60 ft. Hit: 28 (8d6) Thunder damage.
Spellcasting. The magen casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material components and using Wisdom as the
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At Will:Mage Hand, Mending, Prestidigitation
1/Day Each:Disintegrate, Move Earth, Stone Shape
VIRVOS  M AGEN
Virvos magen are frequently employed at opulent events, where they use their magic to create enchanting atmospheres or
entertain crowds with pleasing illusions.
ARTIST: JOHN TEDRICK

--- PAGE 110 ---

VIRVOS  M AGEN
Medium Construct, Unaligned
AC 21Initiative +3 (13)
HP 110 (17d8 + 34)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 20 ft. (hover)
VIRVOS MAGEN

--- PAGE 111 ---

Ability Score MOD SAVE
Str12 +1 +1
Dex10 +0 +0
Con14 +2 +2
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Int10 +0 +0
Wis10 +0 +0
Cha16 +3 +3
SkillsPerception +6
Immunities Poison, Psychic; Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
Senses Passive Perception 16
Languages Understands Common plus two other languages but can’t speak
CR 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)
Traits
Disintegration. If the magen dies, it disintegrates into dust, leaving behind anything it was wearing or carrying.
Magic Resistance. The magen has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The magen makes two Psychic Blast attacks.
Psychic Blast.Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. or range 60 ft. Hit: 21 (6d6) Psychic damage.
Spellcasting. The magen casts one of the following spells, requiring no Material components and using Charisma as the
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14):
At Will:Dancing Lights, Minor Illusion
1/Day Each:Hypnotic Pattern, Major Image

--- PAGE 112 ---

↑ PHAERIMM
Alien, Magic-Obsessed Manipulators
Habitat: Underdark, Urban; Treasure:Arcana, Implements
Phaerimm are malevolent alien beings who seek to dominate other sentient beings. A phaerimm's conical body ripples through the
air, trailing behind a large, flat mouth ringed by four delicate arms. A phaerimm’s body tapers to a venomous stinger it prefers to
use only when magical means fail it.
Ancient phaerimm devastated the once-powerful empire of Netheril. The phaerimm were imprisoned long before the rise of
Netheril beneath the great desert of Anauroch, where they plot a return to their former dominion.
PHAERIMM  H ATCHLING
Phaerimm zealously guard their rare hatchlings not out of parental devotion, but to ensure their kind’s growing strength.
PHAERIMM  H ATCHLING
Small Aberration, Neutral Evil
AC 12Initiative +1 (11)
HP 13 (3d6 + 3)
A PHAERIMM ELDER, SHOWN AT TOP, PLOTS WITH THREE PHAERIMM AGENTS AND A PHAERIMM HATCHLINGARTIST: JOHN TEDRICK

--- PAGE 113 ---

Speed 10 ft., Fly 30 ft. (hover)
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Str11 +0 +0
Dex12 +1 +1
Con12 +1 +1
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Int14 +2 +2
Wis16 +3 +3
Cha14 +2 +2
SkillsPerception +5
ImmunitiesCharmed
SensesTruesight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages Understands Common and Deep Speech but can’t speak; telepathy 30 ft.
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The phaerimm has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The phaerimm makes two Stinger attacks.
Stinger.Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) Piercing damage.
Spellcasting. The phaerimm casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell components and using Charisma as the
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 12):
At Will:Detect Thoughts, Mage Hand
PHAERIMM  S COUT
Phaerimm scouts typically operate alone and in the shadows, gathering information for upcoming phaerimm operations.
PHAERIMM  S COUT
Medium Aberration, Neutral Evil
AC 13Initiative +3 (13)

--- PAGE 114 ---

HP 44 (8d8 + 8)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 40 ft.
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Str12 +1 +1
Dex13 +1 +1
Con12 +1 +1
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Int15 +2 +4
Wis16 +3 +3
Cha16 +3 +5
SkillsPerception +5
ImmunitiesCharmed
SensesTruesight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
Languages Understands Common and Deep Speech but can’t speak; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 2 (XP 450; PB +2)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The phaerimm has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The phaerimm makes two attacks, using Stinger or Mindwarp Ray in any combination.
Stinger.Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d6 + 1) Piercing damage plus 9 (2d8) Poison damage.
Mindwarp Ray.Ranged Attack Roll: +5, range 120 ft. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) Psychic damage, and the target has the Charmed condition
until the start of the phaerimm’s next turn.
Spellcasting. The phaerimm casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell components and using Charisma as the
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 13):
At Will:Detect Magic, Detect Thoughts, Mage Hand
1/Day:Clairvoyance
Reactions

--- PAGE 115 ---

Uncanny Dodge.Trigger: The phaerimm is hit by an attack roll. Response: The phaerimm halves the damage (round down) it takes
from that attack.
PHAERIMM  A GENT
Phaerimm agents travel the surface world, seeking out powerful magic to rule others.
PHAERIMM  A GENT
Large Aberration, Neutral Evil
AC 15Initiative +4 (14)
HP 123 (19d10 + 19)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 40 ft. (hover)
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Str12 +1 +1
Dex18 +4 +4
Con12 +1 +4
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Int17 +3 +6
Wis16 +3 +6
Cha18 +4 +7
SkillsArcana +9, Insight +6, Perception +6
ImmunitiesCharmed
SensesTruesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 16
Languages Understands Common and Deep Speech but can’t speak; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The phaerimm has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The phaerimm makes three attacks, using Dread Stinger or Mindwarp Ray in any combination.
Dread Stinger.Melee Attack Roll: +7, reach 5 ft. Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) Piercing damage plus 13 (2d12) Poison damage.

--- PAGE 116 ---

Mindwarp Ray.Ranged Attack Roll: +7, range 120 ft. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) Psychic damage, and the target has the Charmed condition
until the start of the phaerimm’s next turn.
Spellcasting. The phaerimm casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell components and using Charisma as the
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 15):
At Will:Detect Magic, Detect Thoughts, Mage Hand
1/Day Each:Clairvoyance, Major Image, Synaptic Static
Bonus Actions
Teleport. The phaerimm teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.
Reactions
Protective Magic (3/Day). The phaerimm casts Counterspell or Shield in response to the spell’s trigger, using the same
spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.
PHAERIMM  E LDER
Phaerimm elders are generals of phaerimm forces, directing covert and direct operations to help their kind subjugate all who stand
in their way. Their ability to siphon magic from magic items makes them incredibly dangerous foes.
PHAERIMM  E LDER
Huge Aberration, Neutral Evil
AC 17Initiative +8 (18)
HP 218 (23d12 + 69)
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft. (hover)
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Str18 +4 +4
Dex16 +3 +3
Con17 +3 +8
Ability Score MOD SAVE
Int17 +3 +8
Wis16 +3 +8
Cha18 +4 +9
SkillsArcana +13, Insight +8, Perception +8

--- PAGE 117 ---

ImmunitiesCharmed, Frightened
SensesTruesight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 18
Languages Understands Common and Deep Speech but can’t speak; telepathy 120 ft.
CR 14 (XP 11,500; PB +5)
Traits
Magic Resistance. The phaerimm has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Actions
Multiattack. The phaerimm makes three Mind Lash attacks. It can replace one attack with either (A) a Vicious Stinger attack or (B)
a use of Spellcasting to cast Command (level 3 version).
Mind Lash.Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: +9, reach 10 ft. or range 120 ft. Hit: 32 (6d8 + 4) Psychic damage.
Vicious Stinger.Melee Attack Roll: +9, reach 5 ft. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing damage plus 26 (4d12) Poison damage, and the
target’s Speed is reduced to 0 feet until the start of the phaerimm’s next turn.
Siphon Magic (Recharge 5–6). The phaerimm focuses on a magic item it can see within 10 feet. When it does, the phaerimm
drains the magic item of any charges. Regardless of whether charges are drained, the phaerimm can cast Clairvoyance, Geas,
Major Image, and Mirage Arcane one additional time that day.
Spellcasting. The phaerimm casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell components and using Charisma as the
spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17):
At Will:Command (level 3 version), Detect Magic, Detect Thoughts, Mage Hand
1/Day Each:Clairvoyance, Geas, Major Image, Mirage Arcane
Bonus Actions
Teleport. The phaerimm teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.
Reactions
Protective Magic (3/Day). The phaerimm casts Counterspell or Shield in response to the spell’s trigger, using the same
spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.

--- PAGE 119 ---

↑ Credits
Lead Designer: Amanda Hamon
Designers: Ron Lundeen, David Somerville
Rules Developer: Makenzie De Armas
Editors: Adrian Ng Di Spaltro (lead), Ayla Bondora, Amanda Frechin, Sadie Lowry, James Wyatt
Art Director: Josh Herman
Graphic Designers: Trystan Falcone (lead), Matt Cole
Cover Illustrator: Olivier Bernard
Interior Illustrators: Luca Bancone, Adam Cook, Álvaro Calvo Escudero, Julian Kok, Alejandro Pacheco, Samuel Perin, John
Tedrick, Zuzanna Wuzyk
Cartographer: Mike Schley
Consultants: Sameer Joseph, Alyssa Visscher
Producers: Rob Hawkey (lead), Dan Tovar (lead), Bill Benham, Siera Bruggeman, Vanessa Hoskins
ARTIST: OLIVIER BERNARD


--- PAGE 120 ---

FRONT COVER
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, the dragon ampersand, Forgotten Realms, Player’s Handbook,
Monster Manual, Dungeon Master’s Guide, all other Wizards of the Coast product names, and their respective
logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the USA and other countries. All characters and their distinctive
likenesses are property of Wizards of the Coast. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United
States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited
without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast.
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC, PO Box 707, Renton, WA 98057-0707, USA. Manufactured by: Hasbro SA, Rue
Emile-Boéchat 31, 2800 Delémont. CH.