
--- PAGE 1 ---

©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 1UNEARTHED ARCANA 2025 
FORGOTTEN REALMS SUBCLASSES  
This playtest document is part of a series of 
Unearthed Arcana  articles that present material 
designed for upcoming products. The material 
here uses the rules in the 2024 Player’s 
Handbook . 
LEARN MORE ON YOUTUBE 
To learn more about the design in this article, we 
invite you to view the videos about it on YouTube 
(www.youtube.com/DNDWizards ). 
WHAT’S INSIDE 
This document presents eight subclasses: 
revised subclasses for the Cleric (Knowledge 
Domain), Fighter (Purple Dragon Knight), and 
Wizard (Bladesinger) and new subclasses for the 
Bard (College of the Moon), Paladin (Oath of the 
Noble Genies), Ranger (Winter Walker), Rogue 
(Scion of the Three), and Sorcerer (Spellfire 
Sorcery). 
THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL 
This article is presented for playtesting and 
feedback. The options here are experimental and 
in draft form. They aren’t officially part of the 
game. Your feedback will help determine whether 
we adopt it as official. 
 How to Playtest This UA.  We invite you to try 
out this material in play. To play with this material, 
you may either incorporate it into your campaign 
or run one or more special playtest sessions. For 
such a session, you may create an adventure of 
your own or use a short adventure from a source 
like Quests from the Infinite Staircase . 
 Power Level.  The character options you read 
here might be more or less powerful than options 
in the 2024 Player’s Handbook . If a design survives 
playtesting, we adjust its power to the desirable 
level before publication. This means an option 
could be more or less powerful in its final form. 
 Feedback.  The best way for you to give us 
feedback on this material is in the survey we’ll 
release on D&D Beyond. If we make this material 
official, it will be refined based on your feedback, 
and then it will appear in a D&D book. 
 Providing feedback on this document is one way 
you can help shape the future of D&D! SUBCLASSES  
This section presents the following subclasses: 
College of the Moon, Knowledge Domain, Purple 
Dragon Knight, Oath of the Noble Genies, Winter 
Walker, Scion of the Three, Spellfire Sorcery, and 
Bladesinger. 
COLLEGE OF THE MOON (BARD) 
Inspire Allies with Primal Tales 
The College of the Moon traces its origins to the 
ancient druidic circles of the Moonshae Isles, 
who entrusted the first Bards of this tradition 
with chronicling the stories of the islands and 
their people. Bards of this college draw from the 
isles’ Fey magic and the primal power of the 
moonwells to bolster their allies, protect the 
natural world, and inspire their bardic works. 
Such works tend to be based on well-known 
Moonshae myths such as the whimsy of fairy 
pranksters, the viciousness of the Beast, and the 
mysteries of the moonwells. 
LEVEL 3: MOONSHAE FOLKTALES 
As a Magic action, you can invoke the power of a 
folktale, imbuing yourself with primal magic 
until you use this feature again. When you use 
this feature, choose which of the following 
folktales you invoke; your choice gives you 
certain benefits while this magic is active. 
 Tale of Life.  You invoke a tale of vitality and 
thriving earth. When you restore Hit Points to a 
creature with a spell, you can expend a Bardic 
Inspiration die and increase the amount of Hit 
Points restored by a number equal to a roll of the 
Bardic Inspiration die. You can do this only once 
per turn. 
 Tale of Gloam.  You invoke a tale of mystery 
and secrets. When you use a Bonus Action to 
give a creature a Bardic Inspiration die, you can 
take the Disengage or Hide action as part of that 
Bonus Action. 
 Tale of Mirth.  You invoke a tale of merriment 
and fey guile. When an enemy you can see within 
60 feet of yourself succeeds on a saving throw, 
you can take a Reaction to expend a Bardic 
Inspiration die. The creature then must roll the 

--- PAGE 2 ---

©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 2Bardic Inspiration die and subtract the number 
rolled from the save’s total, possibly causing the 
save to fail. 
LEVEL 3: PRIMAL LORIST 
You learn Druidic and one cantrip from the 
Druid spell list. It counts as a Bard spell for you 
but doesn’t count against the number of cantrips 
you know.  
 Additionally, choose one of the following skills: 
Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Nature, 
Perception, or Survival. You have proficiency in 
that skill. 
LEVEL 6: BLESSING OF THE MOONWELLS  
You always have the Moonbeam  spell prepared.  
 As a Bonus Action, you can cast Moonbeam  
without expending a spell slot. When you cast it 
using this feature, you glow faintly while you 
maintain Concentration on the spell. While 
glowing, you shed Dim Light out to 5 feet, and 
whenever a creature fails its saving throw 
against the effects of this Moonbeam , another 
creature of your choice that you can see within 
60 feet of you regains 2d4 Hit Points.  
 Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore 
your use of it by expending a level 3+ spell slot 
(no action required). 
LEVEL 14: BOLSTERED FOLKTALES 
The power of your Moonshae Folktales 
improves. When you use your Tale of Life or Tale 
of Mirth, you can roll 1d6 and use the number 
rolled in place of expending a Bardic Inspiration 
die, and when you use your Tale of Gloam, you 
can also teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied 
space you can see as part of that Bonus Action. 
KNOWLEDGE DOMAIN (CLERIC) 
Unearth Secrets and Master the Mind 
The Knowledge Domain values learning and 
understanding above all. Clerics who tap into 
this domain study esoteric lore, collect old 
tomes, delve into the secret places of the earth, 
and examine the process of the mind itself.  
 Gods of knowledge vary from masters of 
arcane magic to patrons of craft and invention. 
To them, knowledge is more valuable than 
material wealth, and the desire to learn is an act 
of worship. Libraries, universities, and other institutions dedicated to education also draw on 
the power of the Knowledge Domain. 
 On Faerûn, Clerics of the Knowledge Domain 
worship deities of learning and ingenuity like 
Oghma and Gond. Other powerful deities—such 
as Asmodeus, Mystra, Savras, and Jergal—also 
count Clerics of the Knowledge Domain among 
their devotees, as do less-common divinities like 
Deneir, the Scribe of Oghma, and Azuth, servant 
of Mystra. 
DESIGN NOTE: KNOWLEDGE DOMAIN UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in the Player’s Handbook  (2014): 
 Blessings of Knowledge  now gives you 
proficiency with a type of Artisan’s Tools. 
 Knowledge Domain Spells  have been updated to 
include more damaging and combat-relevant 
options. The number of spells has also increased. 
 Mind Magic  is a new feature that allows you to 
expend a use of Channel Divinity to cast one of 
your domain spells without expending a spell 
slot.  
 Unfettered Mind  is a new feature that grants 
you telepathy and consistent Intelligence checks. 
 Divine Foreknowledge  is a new feature that 
allows you to gain Advantage on D20 Tests for 1 
hour. 
LEVEL 3: BLESSINGS OF KNOWLEDGE  
You gain proficiency with one type of Artisan’s 
Tools of your choice and in two of the following 
skills of your choice: Arcana, History, Nature, or 
Religion. You have Expertise in those two skills. 
LEVEL 3: KNOWLEDGE DOMAIN SPELLS 
When you reach a Cleric level specified in the 
Knowledge Domain Spells table, you thereafter 
always have the listed spells prepared.  
KNOWLEDGE DOMAIN SPELLS 
Cleric Level Prepared Spells 
3 Command , Comprehend Languages , 
Detect Magic , Detect Thoughts , 
Identify, Mind Spike  
5 Dispel Magic , Nondetection , Tongues 
7 Arcane Eye , Banishment , Confusion  
9 Legend Lore, Scrying, Synaptic Static  
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 3LEVEL 3: MIND MAGIC 
As a Magic action, you can expend one use of 
your Channel Divinity to manifest your magical 
knowledge. Choose one spell from the 
Knowledge Domain Spells table that you have 
prepared. As part of that action, you cast that 
spell without expending a spell slot or needing 
Material components. 
LEVEL 6: UNFETTERED MIND 
You gain telepathy out to 60 feet. When you use 
this telepathy, you can simultaneously contact a 
number of creatures equal to your Wisdom 
modifier (minimum of one). 
 Additionally, if your total for an Intelligence 
check is lower than your Wisdom score, you can 
use that score in place of the total. 
LEVEL 17: DIVINE FOREKNOWLEDGE  
As a Bonus Action, you magically expand your 
mind to the possibilities of the future. For 1 hour, 
you have Advantage on D20 Tests. Once you use 
this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish 
a Long Rest. You can also restore your use of this 
feature by expending a level 6+ spell slot (no 
action required). 
PURPLE DRAGON KNIGHT (FIGHTER) 
Herald the Majesty of Amethyst Dragons 
The Purple Dragon Knights are paragons of valor 
and leadership who partner with amethyst 
dragons. Such knights aspire to protect the 
innocent and rally fellow adventurers to the 
causes of justice and freedom. Although the 
Purple Dragons were originally founded in 
Cormyr, new recruits are enlisted from any 
realms where chivalry is in abundance, including 
the Silver Marches, Damara, and Chessenta. 
 Characters with this subclass are special 
among the order. Unlike most Purple Dragons, 
who partner with amethyst dragons who’ve 
already reached adulthood, a Purple Dragon 
Knight character psionically bonds with an 
amethyst dragon hatchling. This bond 
irrevocably transforms both dragon and knight, 
allowing the dragon to grow in strength 
alongside its partner knight. 
DESIGN NOTE: PURPLE DRAGON KNIGHT UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in Sword Coast Adventurer’s Guide :  Knightly Envoy  (formerly Royal Envoy) has been 
moved to level 3. It now lets you learn an 
additional language and cast the Comprehend 
Languages  spell as a Ritual. 
 Purple Dragon Companion  is a new feature that 
gives the Purple Dragon Knight a dragon 
companion. 
 Dragon Rider  is a new feature that improves the 
dragon companion, allowing you to heal it with 
your Second Wind and ride it in a limited 
capacity. 
 Rallying Surge  (formerly Inspiring Surge) now 
lets you choose up to three creatures within a 
more limited radius. It also gives chosen 
creatures a retreat option. 
 Amethyst Pinnacle  is a new feature that again 
improves your dragon companion, allowing you 
to ride it unrestricted and attack in tandem. 
 Enduring Commander  is a new feature that 
grants both you and your dragon companion 
Resistances. 
LEVEL 3: KNIGHTLY ENVOY 
You learn one language of your choice, which 
you choose from the language tables in the 
Player’s Handbook .  
 Additionally, you can cast the Comprehend 
Languages  spell but only as a Ritual. Intelligence 
is your spellcasting ability for it. 
LEVEL 3: PURPLE DRAGON COMPANION  
You are bonded with an amethyst dragon 
hatchling that serves as your purple dragon 
companion and uses the Purple Dragon 
Companion  stat block. The purple dragon is 
Friendly to you and your allies and obeys your 
commands.  
 The Dragon in Combat.  In combat, the dragon 
acts during your turn. It can move and use its 
Reaction on its own, but the only action it takes 
is the Dodge action unless you take a Bonus 
Action to command it to take an action in its stat 
block or some other action. If you have the 
Incapacitated condition, the dragon acts on its 
own and isn’t limited to the Dodge action. 
 Resurrecting the Dragon.  If the dragon 
companion has died within the last hour, you can 
take a Magic action to touch the dragon and 
expend a use of your Second Wind. The dragon 
returns to life after 1 minute with all its Hit 
Points restored. 

--- PAGE 4 ---

©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 4 Otherwise, you can perform a 1-hour 
ceremony to resurrect the dragon; this 
ceremony can be performed as part of a Short or 
Long Rest. 
PURPLE DRAGON COMPANION  
Small Dragon, Neutral 
AC 13 + your Intelligence modifier 
HP 4 plus four times your Fighter level (the dragon has a 
number of Hit Dice [d6s] equal to your Fighter level) 
Speed 30 ft., Fly 30 ft., Swim 30 ft. 
 MOD  SAVE  MOD SAVE  MOD  SAVE 
Str 16 +3 +3 Dex 16 +3 +3 Con 12 +1 +1 
Int 8 −1 −1 Wis 13 +1 +1 Cha 10 +0 +0 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11 
Languages  Understands the languages you know; 
telepathy 30 ft. 
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 
TRAITS 
Amphibious.  The dragon can breathe both air and 
water. 
Stalwart Bond.  Add half your Proficiency Bonus (round 
down) to any ability check or saving throw the dragon 
makes. 
ACTIONS 
Rend. Melee Attack Roll:  +3 plus your Intelligence 
modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d6 plus your Intelligence 
modifier Force damage. 
Gravity Breath (2/Day). Constitution Saving Throw:  DC 8 
plus your Proficiency Bonus plus your Intelligence 
modifier, each creature in a 15-foot Cone. Failure: The 
target is either pulled up to 15 feet straight toward the 
dragon or pushed 15 feet straight away from the dragon 
(your choice). 
LEVEL 7: DRAGON RIDER 
You and your purple dragon gain the following 
benefits. 
 Dragon Mount.  The dragon grows to Medium 
size. You can use the dragon as a mount if you 
are Medium or smaller, but while you’re riding it, 
the dragon falls at the end of a turn if it’s 
airborne and the only thing holding it aloft is its 
Fly Speed. It takes you only 5 feet of movement 
to mount or dismount the dragon. 
 Improved Gravity Breath.  The dragon’s 
Gravity Breath becomes a 30-foot Cone. When a 
creature fails its saving throw against that 
Gravity Breath, the creature also takes 2d6 Force 
damage.  Shared Second Wind.  When you use your 
Second Wind to regain Hit Points, the dragon 
also regains Hit Points equal to 1d6 plus your 
Fighter level, and it regains one use of its Gravity 
Breath. 
LEVEL 10: RALLYING SURGE 
When you use your Action Surge, you can choose 
up to three allies within a 30-foot Emanation 
originating from you. Each ally can take a 
Reaction to use one of the following options. 
 Advance.  The ally makes one attack with a 
weapon or an Unarmed Strike. If your purple 
dragon is one of the allies using Advance, the 
dragon can make one Rend attack. 
 Retreat.  The ally moves up to half its Speed 
without provoking Opportunity Attacks. 
LEVEL 15: AMETHYST PINNACLE 
You and your purple dragon gain the following 
benefits. 
 Superior Mount.  The purple dragon grows to 
Large size, and both its Speed and its Fly Speed 
increase to 40 feet. Additionally, the dragon no 
longer falls at the end of a turn if airborne while 
you’re riding it. 
 Tandem Attack.  When you take the Attack 
action on your turn, you can forego one of your 
attacks to command the dragon to make one 
Rend attack. Alternatively, you can forego two of 
your attacks to command the dragon to use 
Gravity Breath.  
LEVEL 18: ENDURING COMMANDER  
You and your purple dragon have Resistance to 
Force and Psychic damage. 
OATH OF THE NOBLE GENIES (PALADIN) 
Brandish the Elemental Splendor of Genies 
Paladins sworn to the Oath of the Noble Genies 
revere the forces of the Elemental Planes. 
Through taking this oath, Paladins draw power 
from the four different types of genies—dao, 
masters of earth; djinn, masters of air; efreet, 
masters of fire; and marids, masters of water—
to create splendid and destructive displays of 
elemental might. 
 On Faerûn, many Paladins who swear this oath 
hail from Calimshan, a land rife with genie-kind. 
Despite their strong local ties, these Calishite 
Paladins often undertake quests that take them 

--- PAGE 5 ---

©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 5all over the Realms and across the multiverse—
including, naturally, the Elemental Planes. 
 These paladins share the following tenets: 
 Beget creation with destruction. 
 Lead with splendor and grace. 
 Respect the elements, and fear their wrath. 
LEVEL 3: ELEMENTAL SMITE 
Immediately after you cast Divine Smite , you can 
expend one use of your Channel Divinity and 
invoke one of the following effects. 
 Dao’s Crush.  The target has the Grappled 
condition (escape DC equal to your spell save 
DC). While Grappled, the target has the 
Restrained condition. 
 Djinni’s Escape.  You teleport to an unoccupied 
space you can see within 30 feet of yourself and 
take on a mist-like form, which lasts until the 
end of your next turn. While in this form, you 
have Immunity to the Grappled, Prone, and 
Restrained conditions. 
 Efreeti’s Fury.  The target takes an extra 2d4 
Fire damage. 
 Marid’s Surge.  The target and each creature of 
your choice in a 10-foot Emanation originating 
from you makes a Strength saving throw against 
your spell save DC. On a failed save, the creature 
is pushed 15 feet straight away from you and has 
the Prone condition. 
LEVEL 3: GENIE SPELLS 
When you reach a Paladin level specified in the 
Genie Spells table, you thereafter always have 
the listed spells prepared.  
GENIE SPELLS 
Paladin 
Level Spells 
3 Chromatic Orb , Elementalism , Thunderous 
Smite 
5 Mirror Image , Phantasmal Force  
9 Fly, Gaseous Form  
13 Conjure Minor Elementals , Summon 
Elemental  
17 Banishing Smite , Contact Other Plane  
 
LEVEL 3: GENIE’S SPLENDOR 
When you aren’t wearing Medium or Heavy 
armor, you gain a bonus to your AC equal to your 
Charisma modifier (minimum of +1).  You also gain proficiency in one of the 
following skills of your choice: Acrobatics, 
Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion. 
LEVEL 7: AURA OF ELEMENTAL SHIELDING 
Choose one of the following damage types: Acid, 
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder damage. You 
and your allies have Resistance to that damage 
type while in your Aura of Protection. 
 At the start of each of your turns, you can 
change the damage type affected by this feature 
to one of the other listed options (no action 
required). 
LEVEL 15: ELEMENTAL REBUKE 
When you are hit by an attack roll, you can take a 
Reaction to halve the attack’s damage against 
yourself (round down) and force the attacker to 
make a Dexterity saving throw against your spell 
save DC. On a failed save, the attacker takes 
damage equal to 4d10 plus your Charisma 
modifier; the damage is one of the following 
types (your choice): Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, 
or Thunder. On a successful save, the attacker 
takes half as much damage. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of 
once), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 20: NOBLE SCION 
As a Bonus Action, you gain the benefits below 
for 10 minutes or until you end them (no action 
required). Once you use this feature, you can’t 
use it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can 
also restore your use of it by expending a level 5 
spell slot (no action required). 
 Flight. You have a Fly Speed of 60 feet and can 
hover. 
 Minor Wish.  When you or an ally in your Aura 
of Protection fails a D20 Test, you can take a 
Reaction to make the D20 Test succeed instead. 
WINTER WALKER (RANGER) 
Withstand the Horrors of Frigid Wastelands 
Winter Walkers hone their craft in the bleak and 
frozen wilds of places like Icewind Dale. Rimed 
with ice, these ruthless Rangers hunt the 
monsters that haunt arctic wastelands, 
eventually becoming frigid terrors themselves. 
 More so than any other Rangers of Icewind 
Dale, Winter Walkers are known to be well 

--- PAGE 6 ---

©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 6versed in the paranormal phenomena specific to 
the realm, including the latent magic of fallen 
Netherese cities, endemic monsters like yetis 
and crag cats, and the rising threat of Underdark 
invaders. In exchange for their cold pragmatism, 
terrifying magic, and mastery of the region, these 
Winter Walkers are regarded with equal parts 
respect and fear. 
 Ten-Towns citizens say that it is Winter 
Walkers’ frequent exposure to malignant entities 
that gives them their fearsome powers. Many 
Reghed nomads, on the other hand, believe that 
nature spirits bestow Winter Walkers with a 
unique curse. 
LEVEL 3: FRIGID EXPLORER 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Frost Resistance.  You have Resistance to Cold 
damage. 
 Polar Strikes.  When you hit a creature with a 
weapon, you can deal an extra 1d4 Cold damage 
to the target, which can take this extra damage 
only once per turn. This extra damage ignores 
Resistance to Cold damage. When you reach 
Ranger level 11, this extra damage increases to 
1d6. 
LEVEL 3: HUNTER’S RIME 
Ice rimes you and your prey, protecting you and 
slowing them. When you cast Hunter’s Mark , you 
gain Temporary Hit Points equal to 1d10 plus 
your Ranger level.  
 Additionally, while a creature is marked by 
your Hunter’s Mark , it can’t take the Disengage 
action. 
LEVEL 3: WINTER WALKER SPELLS 
When you reach a Ranger level specified in the 
Winter Walker Spells table, you thereafter 
always have the listed spells prepared.  
WINTER WALKER SPELLS 
Ranger 
Level Spell 
3 Ice Knife 
5 Pass Without Trace 
9 Remove Curse 
13 Ice Storm 
17 Cone of Cold 
 
LEVEL 7: FORTIFYING SOUL 
Your experience surviving harrowing 
environments allows you to bolster your allies in addition to yourself. When you finish a Short 
Rest, you can choose a number of creatures you 
can see equal to your Wisdom modifier 
(minimum of one). A chosen creature regains Hit 
Points equal to 1d10 plus your Ranger level and 
has Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end 
the Frightened condition for 1 hour. 
 Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest.  
LEVEL 11: CHILLING RETRIBUTION  
When a creature hits you with an attack roll, you 
can take a Reaction to force the creature to make 
a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save 
DC. On a failed save, the target has the 
Frightened condition until the end of your next 
turn. While Frightened, a target’s Speed is 
reduced to 0 feet.  
 You can use this Reaction a number of times 
equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of 
once), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 15: FROZEN HAUNT 
When you cast Hunter’s Mark , you can adopt a 
ghostly, snowy form. This form lasts until the 
spell ends, and while you are in this form, you 
gain the following benefits. Once you use this 
feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a 
Long Rest unless you expend a level 4+ spell slot 
(no action required).  
 Frozen Soul.  You have Immunity to Cold 
damage. When you first adopt this form and at 
the start of each of your subsequent turns, each 
creature of your choice in a 15-foot Emanation 
originating from you takes 2d4 Cold damage. 
 Partially Incorporeal.  You have Immunity to 
the Grappled, Prone, and Restrained conditions. 
You can move through creatures and objects as if 
they were Difficult Terrain, but you take 1d10 
Force damage if you end your turn inside a 
creature or an object. If the form ends while you 
are inside a creature or an object, you are 
shunted to the nearest unoccupied space.  
SCION OF THE THREE (ROGUE) 
Become a Gruesome Agent of Malice 
A Scion of the Three draws power from a group 
of malevolent gods known as the Dead Three: 
Bane, deity of tyranny; Bhaal, deity of violence 
and murder; and Myrkul, deity of death. While 
some Rogues of this subclass pledge themselves 

--- PAGE 7 ---

©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 7ardently to those three macabre gods, others 
find themselves thrust on this path by a curse. 
Either way, a scion’s power manifests as various 
occult gifts, as well as an uncanny talent for 
striking and terrifying foes.  
 Scions of the Three are most common in 
Baldur’s Gate, where the Dead Three have long 
competed for influence over mortal hearts. 
Underground cults to Bane, Bhaal, and Myrkul 
often count Scions of the Three among their 
most useful agents. Outside Baldur’s Gate, 
secular thieves’ guilds such as the Shadow 
Thieves of Amn or Xanathar’s guild in Waterdeep 
might cautiously call on a Scion of the Three to 
undertake an especially violent contract. 
LEVEL 3: BLOODTHIRST  
If your Sneak Attack hits a Bloodied creature, the 
target takes extra damage of the weapon’s type 
equal to half your Rogue level (round up).  
 In addition, when an enemy you can see is 
reduced to 0 Hit Points, you can take a Reaction 
and teleport to an unoccupied space you can see 
within 30 feet of yourself. You can then make 
one melee attack. You can use this Reaction a 
number of times equal to your Intelligence 
modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all 
expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 3: DREAD ALLEGIANCE  
Choose one of the Dead Three: Bane, Bhaal, or 
Myrkul. You gain Resistance to one type of 
damage and the ability to cast a cantrip, as 
detailed in the table below; Intelligence is your 
spellcasting ability for this cantrip. When you 
finish a Long Rest, you can change your choice. 
God Damage Resistance Cantrip 
Bane Psychic Minor Illusion 
Bhaal Poison Blade Ward 
Myrkul Necrotic Chill Touch 
 
LEVEL 9: STRIKE FEAR 
You gain the following Cunning Strike option. 
 Terrify (Cost: 1d6).  The target must succeed 
on a Wisdom saving throw, or it has the 
Frightened condition for 1 minute. The 
Frightened target repeats the save at the end of 
each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a 
success. LEVEL 13: AURA OF MALEVOLENCE  
You radiate malignant power associated with 
one of the Dead Three. At the start of each of 
your turns, each creature of your choice within a 
10-foot Emanation originating from you takes 
damage equal to your Intelligence modifier 
(minimum of 1); the damage type is the same as 
the damage Resistance granted by your choice in 
the Dread Allegiance feature. 
 Damage dealt by this aura ignores Resistance. 
The aura is inactive while you have the 
Incapacitated condition. 
LEVEL 17: DREAD INCARNATE  
You gain the following benefits. 
 Battle Tyrant.  You have Advantage on attack 
rolls against any creature with the Frightened 
condition. 
 Murderous Intent.  When you roll for your 
Sneak Attack damage, you can treat a roll of a 1 
or 2 on the die as a 3. 
SPELLFIRE SORCERY (SORCERER) 
Radiate Raw Magic Potential 
Your innate power stems from the source of 
magic itself: the Weave. This connection 
manifests as a rare ability known as spellfire, 
and you surge with radiant bursts of this raw 
magic. Your talent with spellfire allows you to 
heal allies, sear enemies, and absorb powerful 
spells.  
 Wielders of spellfire tend to be adventurous 
souls with penchants for wandering. Many travel 
between cosmopolitan settlements, such as 
those along the Sword Coast, and wield their 
magic in service of the common good. Others 
prioritize the realization of their own strange 
powers by roaming equally strange lands, from 
the magic-blasted wastes of the Anauroch Desert 
to the god-touched wilds of the Old Empires. 
Wherever they go in the Realms, spellfire 
Sorcerers are often courted by factions with 
interests in the arcane arts, such as the Harpers 
and the Cult of the Dragon. 
LEVEL 3: SPELLFIRE BURST 
When you spend at least 1 Sorcery Point as part 
of the Magic action or a Bonus Action on your 
turn, you can unleash one of the following 
magical effects of your choice. You can do so only 
once per turn. 

--- PAGE 8 ---

©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 8 Bolstering Flames.  You or one creature you 
can see within 30 feet of yourself gains 
Temporary Hit Points equal to 1d4 plus your 
Charisma modifier. 
 Radiant Fire.  One creature you can see within 
30 feet of yourself must succeed on a Dexterity 
saving throw against your spell save DC or take 
1d6 Fire or Radiant damage (your choice). 
LEVEL 3: SPELLFIRE SPELLS 
When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the 
Spellfire Spells table, you thereafter always have 
the listed spells prepared.  
SPELLFIRE SPELLS 
Sorcerer 
Level Spells 
3 Cure Wounds , Guiding Bolt , Lesser 
Restoration , Scorching Ray  
5 Aura of Vitality , Dispel Magic  
7 Fire Shield, Wall of Fire  
9 Greater Restoration , Flame Strike  
 
LEVEL 6: ABSORB SPELLS 
You always have Counterspell  prepared.  
 Additionally, whenever a target fails the saving 
throw against a Counterspell  you cast, you regain 
1d4 Sorcery Points. 
LEVEL 14: HONED SPELLFIRE 
Your Spellfire Burst improves. You add your 
Sorcerer level to the Temporary Hit Points 
gained from Bolstering Flames, and the 1d6 of 
Radiant Fire increases to 3d6.  
LEVEL 18: CROWN OF SPELLFIRE 
As a Bonus Action, you gain the following 
benefits for 1 minute. Once you use this Bonus 
Action, you can’t use it again until you finish a 
Long Rest unless you spend 7 Sorcery Points (no 
action required) to restore your use of it. 
 Burning Life Force.  Once per turn when you 
are hit by an attack roll, you can expend a 
number of Hit Dice, up to a maximum equal to 
your Charisma modifier (minimum of one). Roll 
the expended dice and reduce the amount of 
damage from that attack equal to the total rolled 
plus your Sorcerer level.  
 Flight. You gain a Fly Speed of 60 feet and can 
hover. 
 Spell Avoidance.  When you’re subjected to a 
spell or magical effect that allows you to make a 
saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the 
saving throw and only half damage if you fail. 
You can’t use this benefit if you have the 
Incapacitated condition. 
BLADESINGER (WIZARD) 
Wield Sword and Sorcery in Elegant Tandem 
Bladesingers master a tradition of wizardry that 
incorporates swordplay and dance. In combat, a 
Bladesinger uses a series of intricate, elegant 
maneuvers that fend off harm and allow the 
Bladesinger to channel magic into devastating 
attacks and a cunning defense. Many who have 
observed a Bladesinger at work remember the 
display as one of the more beautiful experiences 
in their life, a glorious dance accompanied by a 
singing blade. 
 Bladesinging is strongly associated with the 
ancient elven societies that first mastered the art 
and coined the term. Even today, most 
Bladesingers still hail from old elven realms, 
such as Cormanthyr, or from non-elven societies 
that share land and history with elves, such as 
the Silver Marches. Wherever they hail from, 
Bladesingers are known for taking their talents 
all across the Realms in order to help common 
people and perform heroic deeds. Few 
communities greet the arrival of a Bladesinger as 
anything but a good omen. 
DESIGN NOTE: BLADESINGER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in Tasha’s Cauldron of Everything : 
 Bladesong  now allows you to use your 
Intelligence modifier for attack and damage rolls 
while the song is active. The number of uses is 
now tied to your Intelligence modifier. 
 Training in War and Song  now grants you 
proficiency in a skill chosen from a list of options. 
Expanded weapon proficiencies have replaced 
armor training, and you can now use a weapon 
as a Spellcasting Focus. 
 Song of Victory  now allows you to make a 
weapon attack as a Bonus Action after casting a 
spell with an action. 
LEVEL 3: BLADESONG  
As a Bonus Action, you invoke an elven magic 
called the Bladesong, provided you aren’t 
wearing armor or using a Shield.  

--- PAGE 9 ---

©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 9 The Bladesong lasts for 1 minute and ends 
early if you have the Incapacitated condition, if 
you don armor or a Shield, or if you use two 
hands to make an attack with a weapon. You can 
dismiss the Bladesong at any time (no action 
required).  
 While the Bladesong is active, you gain the 
following benefits. You can invoke the Bladesong 
a number of times equal to your Intelligence 
modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all 
expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 
 Agility.  You gain a bonus to your AC equal to 
your Intelligence modifier (minimum of +1), and 
your Speed increases by 10 feet. 
 Bladework.  Whenever you attack with a 
weapon with which you have proficiency, you 
can use your Intelligence modifier for the attack 
and damage rolls instead of using Strength or 
Dexterity. 
 Focus. When you make a Constitution saving 
throw to maintain Concentration, you can add 
your Intelligence modifier to the total. 
LEVEL 3: TRAINING IN WAR AND SONG 
You gain proficiency with all Melee Martial 
weapons that don’t have the Two-Handed or 
Heavy property. You can use a Melee weapon 
with which you have proficiency as a 
Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells. 
 You also gain proficiency in one of the 
following skills of your choice: Acrobatics, 
Athletics, Performance, or Persuasion. 
LEVEL 6: EXTRA ATTACK 
You can attack twice, instead of once, whenever 
you take the Attack action on your turn. 
Moreover, you can cast one of your Wizard 
cantrips that has a casting time of an action in 
place of one of those attacks. 
LEVEL 10: SONG OF DEFENSE 
When you take damage while your Bladesong is 
active, you can take a Reaction to expend one 
spell slot and reduce the damage taken by an 
amount equal to five times the spell slot’s level. 
LEVEL 14: SONG OF VICTORY 
After you cast a spell that has a casting time of an 
action, you can make one attack with a weapon 
as a Bonus Action. 
 
 